

  

  
  
  

Go Modules Reference - The Go Programming Language

  

  

  
    
      
        
      
      
         Skip to Main Content 
      
      
        
          
            
              Why Go arrow_drop_down
            
            
              Press Enter to activate/deactivate dropdown
            
              
                  
                    
                        
                          Case Studies
                          
                        
                    
                    Common problems companies solve with Go
                  
                  
                    
                        
                          Use Cases
                          
                        
                    
                    Stories about how and why companies use Go
                  
                  
                    
                        
                          Security
                          
                        
                    
                    How Go can help keep you secure by default
                  
              
          
          
            
              Learn 
            
            
              Press Enter to activate/deactivate dropdown
            
          
          
            
              Docs arrow_drop_down
            
            
              Press Enter to activate/deactivate dropdown
            
              
                  
                    
                        
                          Go Spec
                          
                        
                    
                    The official Go language specification
                  
                  
                    
                        
                          Go User Manual
                          
                        
                    
                    A complete introduction to building software with Go
                  
                  
                    
                        
                          Standard library
                          
                        
                    
                    Reference documentation for Go's standard library
                  
                  
                    
                        
                          Release Notes
                          
                        
                    
                    Learn what's new in each Go release
                  
                  
                    
                        
                          Effective Go
                          
                        
                    
                    Tips for writing clear, performant, and idiomatic Go code
                  
              
          
          
            
              Packages 
            
            
              Press Enter to activate/deactivate dropdown
            
          
          
            
              Community arrow_drop_down
            
            
              Press Enter to activate/deactivate dropdown
            
              
                  
                    
                        
                          Recorded Talks
                          
                        
                    
                    Videos from prior events
                  
                  
                    
                        
                          Meetups
                           open_in_new
                        
                    
                    Meet other local Go developers
                  
                  
                    
                        
                          Conferences
                           open_in_new
                        
                    
                    Learn and network with Go developers from around the world
                  
                  
                    
                        
                          Go blog
                          
                        
                    
                    The Go project's official blog.
                  
                  
                    
                        
                          Go project
                          
                        
                    
                    Get help and stay informed from Go
                  
                  
                    
                        Get connected
                    
                    
                      
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                      
                  
              
          
        
        
        
      
    
    
  

  
    
      
        
      
    
    
        
          
            Why Go navigate_next

            
              
                
                  navigate_beforeWhy Go
                
                
                    
                        
                          Case Studies
                          
                        
                      
                    
                    
                        
                          Use Cases
                          
                        
                      
                    
                    
                        
                          Security
                          
                        
                      
                    
                
              
            
          

        
        
          
            Learn
          
        
        
          
            Docs navigate_next

            
              
                
                  navigate_beforeDocs
                
                
                    
                        
                          Go Spec
                          
                        
                      
                    
                    
                        
                          Go User Manual
                          
                        
                      
                    
                    
                        
                          Standard library
                          
                        
                      
                    
                    
                        
                          Release Notes
                          
                        
                      
                    
                    
                        
                          Effective Go
                          
                        
                      
                    
                
              
            
          

        
        
          
            Packages
          
        
        
          
            Community navigate_next

            
              
                
                  navigate_beforeCommunity
                
                
                    
                        
                          Recorded Talks
                          
                        
                      
                    
                    
                        
                          Meetups
                           open_in_new
                        
                      
                    
                    
                        
                          Conferences
                           open_in_new
                        
                      
                    
                    
                        
                          Go blog
                          
                        
                      
                    
                    
                        
                          Go project
                          
                        
                      
                    
                    
                        Get connected
                        
                          
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        
                    
                
              
            
          

        
    
  

  

Go Modules Reference

Introduction
Modules are how Go manages dependencies.
This document is a detailed reference manual for Go’s module system. For an
introduction to creating Go projects, see How to Write Go
Code. For information on using modules,
migrating projects to modules, and other topics, see the blog series starting
with Using Go Modules.
Modules, packages, and versions
A module is a collection of packages that are released, versioned,
and distributed together. Modules may be downloaded directly from version
control repositories or from module proxy servers.
A module is identified by a module path, which is declared
in a go.mod file, together with information about the
module’s dependencies. The module root directory is the directory
that contains the go.mod file. The main module is the module
containing the directory where the go command is invoked.
Each package within a module is a collection of source files in the
same directory that are compiled together. A package path is the
module path joined with the subdirectory containing the package (relative to the
module root). For example, the module "golang.org/x/net" contains a package in
the directory "html". That package’s path is "golang.org/x/net/html".
Module paths
A module path is the canonical name for a module, declared with the
module directive in the module’s go.mod
file. A module’s path is the prefix for package paths within
the module.
A module path should describe both what the module does and where to find it.
Typically, a module path consists of a repository root path, a directory within
the repository (usually empty), and a major version suffix (only for major
version 2 or higher).

The repository root path is the portion of the module path that
corresponds to the root directory of the version control repository where the
module is developed. Most modules are defined in their repository’s root
directory, so this is usually the entire path. For example,
golang.org/x/net is the repository root path for the module of the same
name. See Finding a repository for a module path for information
on how the go command locates a repository using HTTP requests derived
from a module path.
If the module is not defined in the repository’s root directory, the
module subdirectory is the part of the module path that names the
directory, not including the major version suffix. This also serves as a
prefix for semantic version tags. For example, the module
golang.org/x/tools/gopls is in the gopls subdirectory of the repository
with root path golang.org/x/tools, so it has the module subdirectory
gopls. See Mapping versions to commits and Module
directories within a repository.
If the module is released at major version 2 or higher, the module path must
end with a major version suffix like
/v2. This may or may not be part of the subdirectory name. For example, the
module with path golang.org/x/repo/sub/v2 could be in the /sub or
/sub/v2 subdirectory of the repository golang.org/x/repo.

If a module might be depended on by other modules, these rules must be followed
so that the go command can find and download the module. There are also
several lexical restrictions on characters allowed in
module paths.
A module that will never be fetched as a dependency of any other module may use
any valid package path for its module path, but must take care not to collide
with paths that may be used by the module’s dependencies or the Go standard
library. The Go standard library uses package paths that do not contain a dot in
the first path element, and the go command does not attempt to resolve such
paths from network servers. The paths example and test are reserved for
users: they will not be used in the standard library and are suitable for use in
self-contained modules, such as those defined in tutorials or example code or
created and manipulated as part of a test.
Versions
A version identifies an immutable snapshot of a module, which may be
either a release or a
pre-release. Each version starts with the letter
v, followed by a semantic version. See Semantic Versioning
2.0.0 for details on how versions are
formatted, interpreted, and compared.
To summarize, a semantic version consists of three non-negative integers (the
major, minor, and patch versions, from left to right) separated by dots. The
patch version may be followed by an optional pre-release string starting with a
hyphen. The pre-release string or patch version may be followed by a build
metadata string starting with a plus. For example, v0.0.0, v1.12.134,
v8.0.5-pre, and v2.0.9+meta are valid versions.
Each part of a version indicates whether the version is stable and whether it is
compatible with previous versions.

The major version must be incremented and the minor
and patch versions must be set to zero after a backwards incompatible change
is made to the module’s public interface or documented functionality, for
example, after a package is removed.
The minor version must be incremented and the patch
version set to zero after a backwards compatible change, for example, after a
new function is added.
The patch version must be incremented after a change
that does not affect the module’s public interface, such as a bug fix or
optimization.
The pre-release suffix indicates a version is a
pre-release. Pre-release versions sort before
the corresponding release versions. For example, v1.2.3-pre comes before
v1.2.3.
The build metadata suffix is ignored for the purpose of comparing versions.
The go command accepts versions with build metadata and converts them to
pseudo-versions to maintain the total ordering between versions.

The special suffix +incompatible denotes a version released before
migrating to modules version major version 2 or later (see Compatibility
with non-module repositories).
The special suffix +dirty is appended to the version information of a
binary when it’s built with a Go toolchain 1.24 or later within a valid
local Version Control System (VCS) repository that contains uncommitted
changes in the working directory.

A version is considered unstable if its major version is 0 or it has a
pre-release suffix. Unstable versions are not subject to compatibility
requirements. For example, v0.2.0 may not be compatible with v0.1.0, and
v1.5.0-beta may not be compatible with v1.5.0.
Go may access modules in version control systems using tags, branches, or
revisions that don’t follow these conventions. However, within the main module,
the go command will automatically convert revision names that don’t follow
this standard into canonical versions. The go command will also remove build
metadata suffixes (except for +incompatible) as part of this process. This may
result in a pseudo-version, a pre-release version that
encodes a revision identifier (such as a Git commit hash) and a timestamp from a
version control system. For example, the command go get golang.org/x/net@daa7c041 will convert the commit hash daa7c041 into the
pseudo-version v0.0.0-20191109021931-daa7c04131f5. Canonical versions are
required outside the main module, and the go command will report an error if a
non-canonical version like master appears in a go.mod file.
Pseudo-versions
A pseudo-version is a specially formatted
pre-release version that encodes
information about a specific revision in a version control repository. For
example, v0.0.0-20191109021931-daa7c04131f5 is a pseudo-version.
Pseudo-versions may refer to revisions for which no semantic version
tags are available. They may be used to test
commits before creating version tags, for example, on a development branch.
Each pseudo-version has three parts:

A base version prefix (vX.0.0 or vX.Y.Z-0), which is either derived from a
semantic version tag that precedes the revision or vX.0.0 if there is no
such tag.
A timestamp (yyyymmddhhmmss), which is the UTC time the revision was
created. In Git, this is the commit time, not the author time.
A revision identifier (abcdefabcdef), which is a 12-character prefix of the
commit hash, or in Subversion, a zero-padded revision number.

Each pseudo-version may be in one of three forms, depending on the base version.
These forms ensure that a pseudo-version compares higher than its base version,
but lower than the next tagged version.

vX.0.0-yyyymmddhhmmss-abcdefabcdef is used when there is no known base
version. As with all versions, the major version X must match the module’s
major version suffix.
vX.Y.Z-pre.0.yyyymmddhhmmss-abcdefabcdef is used when the base version is
a pre-release version like vX.Y.Z-pre.
vX.Y.(Z+1)-0.yyyymmddhhmmss-abcdefabcdef is used when the base version is
a release version like vX.Y.Z. For example, if the base version is
v1.2.3, a pseudo-version might be v1.2.4-0.20191109021931-daa7c04131f5.

More than one pseudo-version may refer to the same commit by using different
base versions. This happens naturally when a lower version is tagged after a
pseudo-version is written.
These forms give pseudo-versions two useful properties:

Pseudo-versions with known base versions sort higher than those versions but
lower than other pre-release for later versions.
Pseudo-versions with the same base version prefix sort chronologically.

The go command performs several checks to ensure that module authors have
control over how pseudo-versions are compared with other versions and that
pseudo-versions refer to revisions that are actually part of a module’s
commit history.

If a base version is specified, there must be a corresponding semantic version
tag that is an ancestor of the revision described by the pseudo-version. This
prevents developers from bypassing minimal version
selection using a pseudo-version that
compares higher than all tagged versions like
v1.999.999-99999999999999-daa7c04131f5.
The timestamp must match the revision’s timestamp. This prevents attackers
from flooding module proxies with an unbounded number
of otherwise identical pseudo-versions. This also prevents module consumers
from changing the relative ordering of versions.
The revision must be an ancestor of one of the module repository’s branches or
tags. This prevents attackers from referring to unapproved changes or pull
requests.

Pseudo-versions never need to be typed by hand. Many commands accept
a commit hash or a branch name and will translate it into a pseudo-version
(or tagged version if available) automatically. For example:
go get example.com/mod@master
go list -m -json example.com/mod@abcd1234

Major version suffixes
Starting with major version 2, module paths must have a major version
suffix like /v2 that matches the major version. For example, if a module
has the path example.com/mod at v1.0.0, it must have the path
example.com/mod/v2 at version v2.0.0.
Major version suffixes implement the import compatibility
rule:

If an old package and a new package have the same import path,
the new package must be backwards compatible with the old package.

By definition, packages in a new major version of a module are not backwards
compatible with the corresponding packages in the previous major version.
Consequently, starting with v2, packages need new import paths. This is
accomplished by adding a major version suffix to the module path. Since the
module path is a prefix of the import path for each package within the module,
adding the major version suffix to the module path provides a distinct import
path for each incompatible version.
Major version suffixes are not allowed at major versions v0 or v1. There is
no need to change the module path between v0 and v1 because v0 versions
are unstable and have no compatibility guarantee. Additionally, for most
modules, v1 is backwards compatible with the last v0 version; a v1 version
acts as a commitment to compatibility, rather than an indication of
incompatible changes compared with v0.
As a special case, modules paths starting with gopkg.in/ must always have a
major version suffix, even at v0 and v1. The suffix must start with a dot
rather than a slash (for example, gopkg.in/yaml.v2).
Major version suffixes let multiple major versions of a module coexist in the
same build. This may be necessary due to a diamond dependency
problem. Ordinarily, if
a module is required at two different versions by transitive dependencies, the
higher version will be used. However, if the two versions are incompatible,
neither version will satisfy all clients. Since incompatible versions must have
different major version numbers, they must also have different module paths due
to major version suffixes. This resolves the conflict: modules with distinct
suffixes are treated as separate modules, and their packages—even packages in
same subdirectory relative to their module roots—are distinct.
Many Go projects released versions at v2 or higher without using a major
version suffix before migrating to modules (perhaps before modules were even
introduced). These versions are annotated with a +incompatible build tag (for
example, v2.0.0+incompatible). See Compatibility with non-module
repositories for more information.
Resolving a package to a module
When the go command loads a package using a package
path, it needs to determine which module provides the
package.
The go command starts by searching the build list for
modules with paths that are prefixes of the package path. For example, if the
package example.com/a/b is imported, and the module example.com/a is in the
build list, the go command will check whether example.com/a contains the
package, in the directory b. At least one file with the .go extension must
be present in a directory for it to be considered a package. Build
constraints are not applied for this
purpose. If exactly one module in the build list provides the package, that
module is used. If no modules provide the package or if two or more modules
provide the package, the go command reports an error. The -mod=mod flag
instructs the go command to attempt to find new modules providing missing
packages and to update go.mod and go.sum. The go get and go mod tidy commands do this automatically.
When the go command looks up a new module for a package path, it checks the
GOPROXY environment variable, which is a comma-separated list of proxy URLs or
the keywords direct or off. A proxy URL indicates the go command should
contact a module proxy using the GOPROXY
protocol. direct indicates that the go command should
communicate with a version control system. off indicates that no
communication should be attempted. The GOPRIVATE and GONOPROXY environment
variables can also be used to control this behavior.
For each entry in the GOPROXY list, the go command requests the latest
version of each module path that might provide the package (that is, each prefix
of the package path). For each successfully requested module path, the go
command will download the module at the latest version and check whether the
module contains the requested package. If one or more modules contain the
requested package, the module with the longest path is used. If one or more
modules are found but none contain the requested package, an error is
reported. If no modules are found, the go command tries the next entry in the
GOPROXY list. If no entries are left, an error is reported.
For example, suppose the go command is looking for a module that provides the
package golang.org/x/net/html, and GOPROXY is set to
https://corp.example.com,https://proxy.golang.org. The go command may make
the following requests:

To https://corp.example.com/ (in parallel):

Request for latest version of golang.org/x/net/html
Request for latest version of golang.org/x/net
Request for latest version of golang.org/x
Request for latest version of golang.org

To https://proxy.golang.org/, if all requests to https://corp.example.com/
have failed with 404 or 410:

Request for latest version of golang.org/x/net/html
Request for latest version of golang.org/x/net
Request for latest version of golang.org/x
Request for latest version of golang.org

After a suitable module has been found, the go command will add a new
requirement with the new module’s path and version to
the main module’s go.mod file. This ensures that when the same package is
loaded in the future, the same module will be used at the same version. If the
resolved package is not imported by a package in the main module, the new
requirement will have an // indirect comment.
go.mod files
A module is defined by a UTF-8 encoded text file named go.mod in its root
directory. The go.mod file is line-oriented. Each line holds a single
directive, made up of a keyword followed by arguments. For example:
module example.com/my/thing

go 1.23.0

require example.com/other/thing v1.0.2
require example.com/new/thing/v2 v2.3.4
exclude example.com/old/thing v1.2.3
replace example.com/bad/thing v1.4.5 => example.com/good/thing v1.4.5
retract [v1.9.0, v1.9.5]

The leading keyword can be factored out of adjacent lines to create a block,
like in Go imports.
require (
    example.com/new/thing/v2 v2.3.4
    example.com/old/thing v1.2.3
)

The go.mod file is designed to be human readable and machine writable. The
go command provides several subcommands that change go.mod files. For
example, go get can upgrade or downgrade specific dependencies.
Commands that load the module graph will automatically
update go.mod when needed. go mod edit can perform low-level edits.  The
golang.org/x/mod/modfile
package can be used by Go programs to make the same changes programmatically.
A go.mod file is required for the main module, and for
any replacement module specified with a local file path.
However, a module that lacks an explicit go.mod file may still be
required as a dependency, or used as a replacement
specified with a module path and version; see Compatibility with non-module
repositories.
Lexical elements
When a go.mod file is parsed, its content is broken into a sequence of tokens.
There are several kinds of tokens: whitespace, comments, punctuation,
keywords, identifiers, and strings.
White space consists of spaces (U+0020), tabs (U+0009), carriage returns
(U+000D), and newlines (U+000A). White space characters other than newlines have
no effect except to separate tokens that would otherwise be combined. Newlines
are significant tokens.
Comments start with // and run to the end of a line. /* */ comments are
not allowed.
Punctuation tokens include (, ), and =>.
Keywords distinguish different kinds of directives in a go.mod file. Allowed
keywords are module, go, require, replace, exclude, and retract.
Identifiers are sequences of non-whitespace characters, such as module paths
or semantic versions.
Strings are quoted sequences of characters. There are two kinds of strings:
interpreted strings beginning and ending with quotation marks (", U+0022) and
raw strings beginning and ending with grave accents (`,
U+0060). Interpreted strings may contain escape sequences consisting of a
backslash (\, U+005C) followed by another character. An escaped quotation
mark (\") does not terminate an interpreted string. The unquoted value
of an interpreted string is the sequence of characters between quotation
marks with each escape sequence replaced by the character following the
backslash (for example, \" is replaced by ", \n is replaced by n).
In contrast, the unquoted value of a raw string is simply the sequence of
characters between grave accents; backslashes have no special meaning within
raw strings.
Identifiers and strings are interchangeable in the go.mod grammar.
Module paths and versions
Most identifiers and strings in a go.mod file are either module paths or
versions.
A module path must satisfy the following requirements:

The path must consist of one or more path elements separated by slashes
(/, U+002F). It must not begin or end with a slash.
Each path element is a non-empty string made of up ASCII letters, ASCII
digits, and limited ASCII punctuation (-, ., _, and ~).
A path element may not begin or end with a dot (., U+002E).
The element prefix up to the first dot must not be a reserved file name on
Windows, regardless of case (CON, com1, NuL, and so on).
The element prefix up to the first dot must not end with a tilde followed by
one or more digits (like EXAMPL~1.COM).

If the module path appears in a require directive and is not replaced, or
if the module paths appears on the right side of a replace directive,
the go command may need to download modules with that path, and some
additional requirements must be satisfied.

The leading path element (up to the first slash, if any), by convention a
domain name, must contain only lower-case ASCII letters, ASCII digits, dots
(., U+002E), and dashes (-, U+002D); it must contain at least one dot and
cannot start with a dash.
For a final path element of the form /vN where N looks numeric (ASCII
digits and dots), N must not begin with a leading zero, must not be /v1,
and must not contain any dots.

For paths beginning with gopkg.in/, this requirement is replaced by a
requirement that the path follow the gopkg.in service’s
conventions.

Versions in go.mod files may be canonical or
non-canonical.
A canonical version starts with the letter v, followed by a semantic version
following the Semantic Versioning 2.0.0
specification. See Versions for more information.
Most other identifiers and strings may be used as non-canonical versions, though
there are some restrictions to avoid problems with file systems, repositories,
and module proxies. Non-canonical versions are only
allowed in the main module’s go.mod file. The go command will attempt to
replace each non-canonical version with an equivalent canonical version when it
automatically updates the go.mod file.
In places where a module path is associated with a version (as in require,
replace, and exclude directives), the final path element must be consistent
with the version. See Major version suffixes.
Grammar
go.mod syntax is specified below using Extended Backus-Naur Form (EBNF).
See the Notation section in the Go Language Specification
for details on EBNF syntax.
GoMod = { Directive } .
Directive = ModuleDirective |
            GoDirective |
            ToolDirective |
            IgnoreDirective |
            RequireDirective |
            ExcludeDirective |
            ReplaceDirective |
            RetractDirective .

Newlines, identifiers, and strings are denoted with newline, ident, and
string, respectively.
Module paths and versions are denoted with ModulePath and Version.
ModulePath = ident | string . /* see restrictions above */
Version = ident | string .    /* see restrictions above */

module directive
A module directive defines the main module’s path. A
go.mod file must contain exactly one module directive.
ModuleDirective = "module" ( ModulePath | "(" newline ModulePath newline ")" ) newline .

Example:
module golang.org/x/net

Deprecation
A module can be marked as deprecated in a block of comments containing the
string Deprecated: (case-sensitive) at the beginning of a paragraph. The
deprecation message starts after the colon and runs to the end of the paragraph.
The comments may appear immediately before the module directive or afterward
on the same line.
Example:
// Deprecated: use example.com/mod/v2 instead.
module example.com/mod

Since Go 1.17, go list -m -u checks for information on all
deprecated modules in the build list. go get
checks for deprecated modules needed to build packages named on the command
line.
When the go command retrieves deprecation information for a module, it loads
the go.mod file from the version matching the @latest version
query without considering retractions or
exclusions. The go command loads the list of
retracted versions from the same go.mod file.
To deprecate a module, an author may add a // Deprecated: comment and tag a
new release. The author may change or remove the deprecation message in a higher
release.
A deprecation applies to all minor versions of a module. Major versions higher
than v2 are considered separate modules for this purpose, since their major
version suffixes give them distinct module paths.
Deprecation messages are intended to inform users that the module is no longer
supported and to provide migration instructions, for example, to the latest
major version. Individual minor and patch versions cannot be deprecated;
retract may be more appropriate for that.
go directive
A go directive indicates that a module was written assuming the semantics of a
given version of Go. The version must be a valid Go version,
such as 1.14, 1.21rc1, or 1.23.0.
The go directive sets the minimum version of Go required to use this module.
Before Go 1.21, the directive was advisory only; now it is a mandatory requirement:
Go toolchains refuse to use modules declaring newer Go versions.
The go directive is an input into selecting which Go toolchain to run.
See “Go toolchains” for details.
The go directive affects use of new language features:

For packages within the module, the compiler rejects use of language features
introduced after the version specified by the go directive. For example, if
a module has the directive go 1.12, its packages may not use numeric
literals like 1_000_000, which were introduced in Go 1.13.
If an older Go version builds one of the module’s packages and encounters a
compile error, the error notes that the module was written for a newer Go
version. For example, suppose a module has go 1.13 and a package uses the
numeric literal 1_000_000. If that package is built with Go 1.12, the
compiler notes that the code is written for Go 1.13.

The go directive also affects the behavior of the go command:

At go 1.14 or higher, automatic vendoring may be enabled.
If the file vendor/modules.txt is present and consistent with go.mod,
there is no need to explicitly use the -mod=vendor flag.
At go 1.16 or higher, the all package pattern matches only packages
transitively imported by packages and tests in the main
module. This is the same set of packages retained by
go mod vendor since modules were introduced. In lower
versions, all also includes tests of packages imported by packages in
the main module, tests of those packages, and so on.
At go 1.17 or higher:

The go.mod file includes an explicit require
directive for each module that provides any package
transitively imported by a package or test in the main module. (At go 1.16 and lower, an indirect dependency is
included only if minimal version selection
would otherwise select a different version.) This extra information enables
module graph pruning and lazy module
loading.
Because there may be many more // indirect dependencies than in previous
go versions, indirect dependencies are recorded in a separate block
within the go.mod file.
go mod vendor omits go.mod and go.sum files for vendored
dependencies. (That allows invocations of the go command within
subdirectories of vendor to identify the correct main module.)
go mod vendor records the go version from each dependency’s go.mod
file in vendor/modules.txt.

At go 1.21 or higher:

The go line declares a required minimum version of Go to use with this module.
The go line must be greater than or equal to the go line of all dependencies.
The go command no longer attempts to maintain compatibility with the previous older version of Go.
The go command is more careful about keeping checksums of go.mod files in the go.sum file.

A go.mod file may contain at most one go directive. Most commands will add a
go directive with the current Go version if one is not present.
If the go directive is missing, go 1.16 is assumed.
GoDirective = "go" GoVersion newline .
GoVersion = string | ident .  /* valid release version; see above */

Example:
go 1.23.0

toolchain directive
A toolchain directive declares a suggested Go toolchain to use with a module.
The suggested Go toolchain’s version cannot be less than the required Go version
declared in the go directive.
The toolchain directive
only has an effect when the module is the main module and the default toolchain’s
version is less than the suggested toolchain’s version.
For reproducibility, the go command writes its own toolchain name in a toolchain line any time
it is updating the go version in the go.mod file (usually during go get).
For details, see “Go toolchains”.
ToolchainDirective = "toolchain" ToolchainName newline .
ToolchainName = string | ident .  /* valid toolchain name; see “Go toolchains” */

Example:
toolchain go1.21.0

godebug directive
A godebug directive declares a single GODEBUG setting
to apply when this module is the main module.
There can be more than one such line, and they can be factored.
It is an error for the main module to name a GODEBUG key that does not exist.
The effect of godebug key=value is as if every main package being compiled
contained a source file that listed //go:debug key=value.
GodebugDirective = "godebug" ( GodebugSpec | "(" newline { GodebugSpec } ")" newline ) .
GodebugSpec = GodebugKey "=" GodebugValue newline.
GodebugKey = GodebugChar { GodebugChar }.
GodebugValue = GodebugChar { GodebugChar }.
GodebugChar = any non-space character except , " ` ' (comma and quotes).

Example:
godebug default=go1.21
godebug (
    panicnil=1
    asynctimerchan=0
)

require directive
A require directive declares a minimum required version of a given module
dependency. For each required module version, the go command loads the
go.mod file for that version and incorporates the requirements from that
file. Once all requirements have been loaded, the go command resolves them
using minimal version selection (MVS) to produce
the build list.
The go command automatically adds // indirect comments for some
requirements. An // indirect comment indicates that no package from the
required module is directly imported by any package in the main
module.
If the go directive specifies go 1.16 or lower, the go
command adds an indirect requirement when the selected version of a module is
higher than what is already implied (transitively) by the main module’s other
dependencies. That may occur because of an explicit upgrade (go get -u ./...),
removal of some other dependency that previously imposed the requirement (go mod tidy), or a dependency that imports a package without a corresponding
requirement in its own go.mod file (such as a dependency that lacks a go.mod
file altogether).
At go 1.17 and above, the go command adds an indirect requirement for each
module that provides any package imported (even
indirectly) by a package or test in the main module
or passed as an argument to go get. These more comprehensive requirements
enable module graph pruning and lazy module
loading.
RequireDirective = "require" ( RequireSpec | "(" newline { RequireSpec } ")" newline ) .
RequireSpec = ModulePath Version newline .

Example:
require golang.org/x/net v1.2.3

require (
    golang.org/x/crypto v1.4.5 // indirect
    golang.org/x/text v1.6.7
)

tool directive
Since Go 1.24, a tool directive adds a package as a dependency of the current module. It also
makes it available to run with go tool when the current working directory is
within this module, or within a workspace that contains this module.
If the tool package is not in the current module, a require
directive must be present that specifies the version of the tool to use.
The tool meta-pattern resolves to the list of tools defined in the current module’s
go.mod, or in workspace mode to the union of all tools defined in all modules in the
workspace.
ToolDirective = "tool" ( ToolSpec | "(" newline { ToolSpec } ")" newline ) .
ToolSpec = ModulePath newline .

Example:
tool golang.org/x/tools/cmd/stringer

tool (
    example.com/module/cmd/a
    example.com/module/cmd/b
)

ignore directive
An ignore directive will cause the go command ignore the slash-separated
directory paths, and any files or directories recursively contained in them,
when matching package patterns.
If the path starts with ./, the path is interpreted relative to the
module root directory, and that directory and any directories or files
recursively contained in it will be ignored when matching package patterns.
Otherwise, any directories with the path at any depth in the module, and
any directories or files recursively contained in them will be ignored.
IgnoreDirective = "ignore" ( IgnoreSpec | "(" newline { IgnoreSpec } ")" newline ) .
IgnoreSpec = RelativeFilePath newline .
RelativeFilePath = /* slash-separated relative file path */ .

Example
ignore ./node_modules

ignore (
    static
    content/html
    ./third_party/javascript
)

exclude directive
An exclude directive prevents a module version from being loaded by the go
command.
Since Go 1.16, if a version referenced by a require directive in any go.mod
file is excluded by an exclude directive in the main module’s go.mod file,
the requirement is ignored. This may cause commands like go get
and go mod tidy to add new requirements on higher versions
to go.mod, with an // indirect comment if appropriate.
Before Go 1.16, if an excluded version was referenced by a require directive,
the go command listed available versions for the module (as shown with go list -m -versions) and loaded the next higher non-excluded version
instead. This could result in non-deterministic version selection, since the
next higher version could change over time. Both release and pre-release
versions were considered for this purpose, but pseudo-versions were not. If
there were no higher versions, the go command reported an error.
exclude directives only apply in the main module’s go.mod file and are
ignored in other modules. See Minimal version
selection for details.
ExcludeDirective = "exclude" ( ExcludeSpec | "(" newline { ExcludeSpec } ")" newline ) .
ExcludeSpec = ModulePath Version newline .

Example:
exclude golang.org/x/net v1.2.3

exclude (
    golang.org/x/crypto v1.4.5
    golang.org/x/text v1.6.7
)

replace directive
A replace directive replaces the contents of a specific version of a module,
or all versions of a module, with contents found elsewhere. The replacement
may be specified with either another module path and version, or a
platform-specific file path.
If a version is present on the left side of the arrow (=>), only that specific
version of the module is replaced; other versions will be accessed normally.
If the left version is omitted, all versions of the module are replaced.
If the path on the right side of the arrow is an absolute or relative path
(beginning with ./ or ../), it is interpreted as the local file path to the
replacement module root directory, which must contain a go.mod file. The
replacement version must be omitted in this case.
If the path on the right side is not a local path, it must be a valid module
path. In this case, a version is required. The same module version must not
also appear in the build list.
Regardless of whether a replacement is specified with a local path or module
path, if the replacement module has a go.mod file, its module directive
must match the module path it replaces.
replace directives only apply in the main module’s go.mod file
and are ignored in other modules. See Minimal version
selection for details.
If there are multiple main modules, all main modules’ go.mod
files apply. Conflicting replace directives across main
modules are disallowed, and must be removed or overridden in
a replace in the go.work file.
Note that a replace directive alone does not add a module to the module
graph. A require directive that
refers to a replaced module version is also needed, either in the main module’s
go.mod file or a dependency’s go.mod file. A replace directive has no
effect if the module version on the left side is not required.
ReplaceDirective = "replace" ( ReplaceSpec | "(" newline { ReplaceSpec } ")" newline ) .
ReplaceSpec = ModulePath [ Version ] "=>" FilePath newline
            | ModulePath [ Version ] "=>" ModulePath Version newline .
FilePath = /* platform-specific relative or absolute file path */

Example:
replace golang.org/x/net v1.2.3 => example.com/fork/net v1.4.5

replace (
    golang.org/x/net v1.2.3 => example.com/fork/net v1.4.5
    golang.org/x/net => example.com/fork/net v1.4.5
    golang.org/x/net v1.2.3 => ./fork/net
    golang.org/x/net => ./fork/net
)

retract directive
A retract directive indicates that a version or range of versions of the
module defined by go.mod should not be depended upon. A retract directive is
useful when a version was published prematurely or a severe problem was
discovered after the version was published. Retracted versions should remain
available in version control repositories and on module
proxies to ensure that builds that depend on them are not
broken. The word retract is borrowed from academic literature: a retracted
research paper is still available, but it has problems and should not be the
basis of future work.
When a module version is retracted, users will not upgrade to it automatically
using go get, go mod tidy, or other
commands. Builds that depend on retracted versions should continue to work, but
users will be notified of retractions when they check for updates with go list -m -u or update a related module with go get.
To retract a version, a module author should add a retract directive to
go.mod, then publish a new version containing that directive. The new version
must be higher than other release or pre-release versions; that is, the
@latest version query should resolve to the new version
before retractions are considered. The go command loads and applies
retractions from the version shown by go list -m -retracted $modpath@latest
(where $modpath is the module path).
Retracted versions are hidden from the version list printed by go list -m -versions unless the -retracted flag is used. Retracted
versions are excluded when resolving version queries like @>=v1.2.3 or
@latest.
A version containing retractions may retract itself. If the highest release
or pre-release version of a module retracts itself, the @latest query
resolves to a lower version after retracted versions are excluded.
As an example, consider a case where the author of module example.com/m
publishes version v1.0.0 accidentally. To prevent users from upgrading to
v1.0.0, the author can add two retract directives to go.mod, then tag
v1.0.1 with the retractions.
retract (
    v1.0.0 // Published accidentally.
    v1.0.1 // Contains retractions only.
)

When a user runs go get example.com/m@latest, the go command reads
retractions from v1.0.1, which is now the highest version. Both v1.0.0 and
v1.0.1 are retracted, so the go command will upgrade (or downgrade!) to
the next highest version, perhaps v0.9.5.
retract directives may be written with either a single version (like v1.0.0)
or with a closed interval of versions with an upper and lower bound, delimited by
[ and ] (like [v1.1.0, v1.2.0]). A single version is equivalent to an
interval where the upper and lower bound are the same. Like other directives,
multiple retract directives may be grouped together in a block delimited by
( at the end of a line and ) on its own line.
Each retract directive should have a comment explaining the rationale for the
retraction, though this is not mandatory. The go command may display rationale
comments in warnings about retracted versions and in go list output. A
rationale comment may be written immediately above a retract directive
(without a blank line in between) or afterward on the same line. If a comment
appears above a block, it applies to all retract directives within the block
that don’t have their own comments. A rationale comment may span multiple lines.
RetractDirective = "retract" ( RetractSpec | "(" newline { RetractSpec } ")" newline ) .
RetractSpec = ( Version | "[" Version "," Version "]" ) newline .

Examples:

Retracting all versions between v1.0.0 and v1.9.9:

retract v1.0.0
retract [v1.0.0, v1.9.9]
retract (
    v1.0.0
    [v1.0.0, v1.9.9]
)

Returning to unversioned after prematurely released a version v1.0.0:

retract [v0.0.0, v1.0.1] // assuming v1.0.1 contains this retraction.

Wiping out a module including all pseudo-versions and tagged versions:

retract [v0.0.0-0, v0.15.2]  // assuming v0.15.2 contains this retraction.

The retract directive was added in Go 1.16. Go 1.15 and lower will report an
error if a retract directive is written in the main
module’s go.mod file and will ignore retract directives
in go.mod files of dependencies.
Automatic updates
Most commands report an error if go.mod is missing information or doesn’t
accurately reflect reality. The go get and
go mod tidy commands may be used to fix most of these
problems. Additionally, the -mod=mod flag may be used with most module-aware
commands (go build, go test, and so on) to instruct the go command to
fix problems in go.mod and go.sum automatically.
For example, consider this go.mod file:
module example.com/M

go 1.23.0

require (
    example.com/A v1
    example.com/B v1.0.0
    example.com/C v1.0.0
    example.com/D v1.2.3
    example.com/E dev
)

exclude example.com/D v1.2.3

The update triggered with -mod=mod rewrites non-canonical version identifiers
to canonical semver form, so example.com/A’s v1
becomes v1.0.0, and example.com/E’s dev becomes the pseudo-version for the
latest commit on the dev branch, perhaps v0.0.0-20180523231146-b3f5c0f6e5f1.
The update modifies requirements to respect exclusions, so the requirement on
the excluded example.com/D v1.2.3 is updated to use the next available version
of example.com/D, perhaps v1.2.4 or v1.3.0.
The update removes redundant or misleading requirements. For example, if
example.com/A v1.0.0 itself requires example.com/B v1.2.0 and example.com/C v1.0.0, then go.mod’s requirement of example.com/B v1.0.0 is misleading
(superseded by example.com/A’s need for v1.2.0), and its requirement of
example.com/C v1.0.0 is redundant (implied by example.com/A’s need for the
same version), so both will be removed. If the main module contains packages
that directly import packages from example.com/B or example.com/C, then the
requirements will be kept but updated to the actual versions being used.
Finally, the update reformats the go.mod in a canonical formatting, so
that future mechanical changes will result in minimal diffs. The go command
will not update go.mod if only formatting changes are needed.
Because the module graph defines the meaning of import statements, any commands
that load packages also use go.mod and can therefore update it, including
go build, go get, go install, go list, go test, go mod tidy.
In Go 1.15 and lower, the -mod=mod flag was enabled by default, so updates
were performed automatically. Since Go 1.16, the go command acts as
if -mod=readonly were set instead: if any changes to go.mod are needed,
the go command reports an error and suggests a fix.
Minimal version selection (MVS)
Go uses an algorithm called Minimal version selection (MVS) to select
a set of module versions to use when building packages. MVS is described in
detail in Minimal Version Selection by
Russ Cox.
Conceptually, MVS operates on a directed graph of modules, specified with
go.mod files. Each vertex in the graph represents a
module version. Each edge represents a minimum required version of a dependency,
specified using a require
directive. The graph may be modified by exclude
and replace directives in the go.mod file(s) of the main
module(s) and by replace directives in the go.work file.
MVS produces the build list as output, the list of module
versions used for a build.
MVS starts at the main modules (special vertices in the graph that have no
version) and traverses the graph, tracking the highest required version of each
module. At the end of the traversal, the highest required versions comprise the
build list: they are the minimum versions that satisfy all requirements.
The build list may be inspected with the command go list -m all. Unlike other dependency management systems, the build list is
not saved in a “lock” file. MVS is deterministic, and the build list doesn’t
change when new versions of dependencies are released, so MVS is used to compute
it at the beginning of every module-aware command.
Consider the example in the diagram below. The main module requires module A
at version 1.2 or higher and module B at version 1.2 or higher. A 1.2 and B 1.2
require C 1.3 and C 1.4, respectively. C 1.3 and C 1.4 both require D 1.2.

MVS visits and loads the go.mod file for each of the module versions
highlighted in blue. At the end of the graph traversal, MVS returns a build list
containing the bolded versions: A 1.2, B 1.2, C 1.4, and D 1.2. Note that higher
versions of B and D are available but MVS does not select them, since nothing
requires them.
Replacement
The content of a module (including its go.mod file) may be replaced using a
replace directive in a main module’s go.mod file
or a workspace’s go.work file. A replace directive may apply to a specific
version of a module or to all versions of a module.
Replacements change the module graph, since a replacement module may have
different dependencies than replaced versions.
Consider the example below, where C 1.4 has been replaced with R. R depends on D
1.3 instead of D 1.2, so MVS returns a build list containing A 1.2, B 1.2, C 1.4
(replaced with R), and D 1.3.

Exclusion
A module may also be excluded at specific versions using an exclude
directive in the main module’s go.mod file.
Exclusions also change the module graph. When a version is excluded, it is
removed from the module graph, and requirements on it are redirected to the
next higher version.
Consider the example below. C 1.3 has been excluded. MVS will act as if A 1.2
required C 1.4 (the next higher version) instead of C 1.3.

Upgrades
The go get command may be used to upgrade a set of modules. To
perform an upgrade, the go command changes the module graph before running MVS
by adding edges from visited versions to upgraded versions.
Consider the example below. Module B may be upgraded from 1.2 to 1.3, C may be
upgraded from 1.3 to 1.4, and D may be upgraded from 1.2 to 1.3.

Upgrades (and downgrades) may add or remove indirect dependencies. In this case,
E 1.1 and F 1.1 appear in the build list after the upgrade, since E 1.1 is
required by B 1.3.
To preserve upgrades, the go command updates the requirements in go.mod.  It
will change the requirement on B to version 1.3. It will also add requirements
on C 1.4 and D 1.3 with // indirect comments, since those versions would not
be selected otherwise.
Downgrade
The go get command may also be used to downgrade a set of
modules. To perform a downgrade, the go command changes the module graph by
removing versions above the downgraded versions. It also removes versions of
other modules that depend on removed versions, since they may not be compatible
with the downgraded versions of their dependencies. If the main module requires
a module version removed by downgrading, the requirement is changed to a
previous version that has not been removed. If no previous version is available,
the requirement is dropped.
Consider the example below. Suppose that a problem was found with C 1.4, so we
downgrade to C 1.3. C 1.4 is removed from the module graph. B 1.2 is also
removed, since it requires C 1.4 or higher. The main module’s requirement on B
is changed to 1.1.

go get can also remove dependencies entirely, using an @none
suffix after an argument. This works similarly to a downgrade. All versions
of the named module are removed from the module graph.
Module graph pruning
If the main module is at go 1.17 or higher, the module
graph used for minimal version
selection includes only the immediate
requirements for each module dependency that specifies go 1.17 or higher in
its own go.mod file, unless that version of the module is also (transitively)
required by some other dependency at go 1.16 or below. (The transitive
dependencies of go 1.17 dependencies are pruned out of the module graph.)
Since a go 1.17 go.mod file includes a require
directive for every dependency needed to build any
package or test in that module, the pruned module graph includes all of the
dependencies needed to go build or go test the packages in any dependency
explicitly required by the main module. A module that is
not needed to build any package or test in a given module cannot affect the
run-time behavior of its packages, so the dependencies that are pruned out of
the module graph would only cause interference between otherwise-unrelated
modules.
Modules whose requirements have been pruned out still appear in the module graph
and are still reported by go list -m all: their selected
versions are known and well-defined, and packages can
be loaded from those modules (for example, as transitive dependencies of tests
loaded from other modules). However, since the go command cannot easily
identify which dependencies of these modules are satisfied, the arguments to go build and go test cannot include packages from modules whose requirements
have been pruned out. go get promotes the module containing each
named package to an explicit dependency, allowing go build or go test to be
invoked on that package.
Because Go 1.16 and earlier did not support module graph pruning, the full
transitive closure of dependencies — including transitive go 1.17
dependencies — is still included for each module that specifies go 1.16 or
lower. (At go 1.16 and below, the go.mod file includes only
direct dependencies, so a much larger graph must be
loaded to ensure that all indirect dependencies are included.)
The go.sum file recorded by go mod tidy for
a module by default includes checksums needed by the Go version one below the
version specified in its go directive. So a go 1.17
module includes checksums needed for the full module graph loaded by Go 1.16,
but a go 1.18 module will include only the checksums needed for the pruned
module graph loaded by Go 1.17. The -compat flag can be used to override the
default version (for example, to prune the go.sum file more aggressively in a
go 1.17 module).
See the design document for more detail.
Lazy module loading
The more comprehensive requirements added for module graph pruning also enable
another optimization when working within a module. If the main module is at
go 1.17 or higher, the go command avoids loading the complete module graph
until (and unless) it is needed. Instead, it loads only the main module’s
go.mod file, then attempts to load the packages to be built using only those
requirements. If a package to be imported (for example, a dependency of a test
for a package outside the main module) is not found among those requirements,
then the rest of the module graph is loaded on demand.
If all imported packages can be found without loading the module graph, the
go command then loads the go.mod files for only the modules containing
those packages, and their requirements are checked against the requirements of
the main module to ensure that they are locally consistent. (Inconsistencies can
arise due to version-control merges, hand-edits, and changes in modules that
have been replaced using local filesystem paths.)
Workspaces
A workspace is a collection of modules on disk that are used as
the main modules when running minimal version selection (MVS).
A workspace can be declared in a go.work file that specifies
relative paths to the module directories of each of the modules in the workspace.
When no go.work file exists, the workspace consists of the single module
containing the current directory.
Most go subcommands that work with modules
operate on the set of modules determined by the current workspace.
go mod init, go mod why, go mod edit, go mod tidy, go mod vendor,
and go get always operate on a single main module.
A command determines whether it is in a workspace context by first examining
the GOWORK environment variable. If GOWORK is set to off, the command will be
in a single-module context. If it is empty or not provided, the command
will search the current working directory, and then successive parent directories,
for a file go.work. If a file is found, the command will operate in the
workspace it defines; otherwise, the workspace will include only the module
containing the working directory.
If GOWORK names a path to an existing file that ends in .work,
workspace mode will be enabled. Any other value is an error. You can use the
go env GOWORK command to determine which go.work file the go command
is using. go env GOWORK will be empty if the go command is not in workspace
mode.
go.work files
A workspace is defined by a UTF-8 encoded text file named go.work. The
go.work file is line oriented. Each line holds a single directive, made up of
a keyword followed by arguments. For example:
go 1.23.0

use ./my/first/thing
use ./my/second/thing

replace example.com/bad/thing v1.4.5 => example.com/good/thing v1.4.5

As in go.mod files, a leading keyword can be factored out of adjacent lines
to create a block.
use (
    ./my/first/thing
    ./my/second/thing
)

The go command provides several subcommands for manipulating go.work files.
go work init creates new go.work files. go work use adds module directories to
the go.work file. go work edit performs low-level
edits. The
golang.org/x/mod/modfile
package can be used by Go programs to make the same changes programmatically.
The go command will maintain a go.work.sum file that keeps track of hashes used by the workspace
that are not in collective workspace modules’ go.sum files.
It is generally inadvisable to commit go.work files into version control
systems, for two reasons:

A checked-in go.work file might override a developer’s own go.work file
from a parent directory, causing confusion when their use directives don’t
apply.
A checked-in go.work file may cause a continuous integration (CI) system to
select and thus test the wrong versions of a module’s dependencies. CI systems
should generally not be allowed to use the go.work file so that they can test
the behavior of the module as it would be used when required by other modules,
where a go.work file within the module has no effect.

That said, there are some cases where committing a go.work file makes sense.
For example, when the modules in a repository are developed exclusively with
each other but not together with external modules, there may not be a reason the
developer would want to use a different combination of modules in a workspace.
In that case, the module author should ensure the individual modules are tested
and released properly.
Lexical elements
Lexical elements in go.work files are defined in exactly the same way as for
go.mod files.
Grammar
go.work syntax is specified below using Extended Backus-Naur Form (EBNF).
See the Notation section in the Go Language Specification
for details on EBNF syntax.
GoWork = { Directive } .
Directive = GoDirective |
            ToolchainDirective |
            UseDirective |
            ReplaceDirective .

Newlines, identifiers, and strings are denoted with newline, ident, and
string, respectively.
Module paths and versions are denoted with ModulePath and Version.
Module paths and versions are specified in exactly the same way as for
go.mod files.
ModulePath = ident | string . /* see restrictions above */
Version = ident | string .    /* see restrictions above */

go directive
A go directive is required in a valid go.work file. The version must
be a valid Go release version: a positive
integer followed by a dot and a non-negative integer (for example, 1.18,
1.19).
The go directive indicates the  go  toolchain version with which the
go.work file is intended to work. If changes are made to the go.work
file format, future versions of the toolchain will interpret the file
according to its indicated version.
A go.work file may contain at most one go directive.
GoDirective = "go" GoVersion newline .
GoVersion = string | ident .  /* valid release version; see above */

Example:
go 1.23.0

toolchain directive
A toolchain directive declares a suggested Go toolchain to use in a workspace.
It only has an effect when the default toolchain
is older than the suggested toolchain.
For details, see “Go toolchains”.
ToolchainDirective = "toolchain" ToolchainName newline .
ToolchainName = string | ident .  /* valid toolchain name; see “Go toolchains” */

Example:
toolchain go1.21.0

godebug directive
A godebug directive declares a single GODEBUG setting
to apply when working in this workspace.
The syntax and effect is the same as the go.mod file’s godebug directive.
When a workspace is in use, godebug directives in go.mod files are ignored.
use directive
A use adds a module on disk to the set of main modules in a workspace.
Its argument is a relative path to the directory containing the module’s
go.mod file. A use directive does not add modules contained in
subdirectories of its argument directory. Those modules may be added by
the directory containing their go.mod file in separate use directives.
UseDirective = "use" ( UseSpec | "(" newline { UseSpec } ")" newline ) .
UseSpec = FilePath newline .
FilePath = /* platform-specific relative or absolute file path */

Example:
use ./mymod  // example.com/mymod

use (
    ../othermod
    ./subdir/thirdmod
)

replace directive
Similar to a replace directive in a go.mod file, a replace directive in
a go.work file replaces the contents of a specific version of a module,
or all versions of a module, with contents found elsewhere. A wildcard replace
in go.work overrides a version-specific replace in a go.mod file.
replace directives in go.work files override any replaces of the same
module or module version in workspace modules.
ReplaceDirective = "replace" ( ReplaceSpec | "(" newline { ReplaceSpec } ")" newline ) .
ReplaceSpec = ModulePath [ Version ] "=>" FilePath newline
            | ModulePath [ Version ] "=>" ModulePath Version newline .
FilePath = /* platform-specific relative or absolute file path */

Example:
replace golang.org/x/net v1.2.3 => example.com/fork/net v1.4.5

replace (
    golang.org/x/net v1.2.3 => example.com/fork/net v1.4.5
    golang.org/x/net => example.com/fork/net v1.4.5
    golang.org/x/net v1.2.3 => ./fork/net
    golang.org/x/net => ./fork/net
)

Compatibility with non-module repositories
To ensure a smooth transition from GOPATH to modules, the go command can
download and build packages in module-aware mode from repositories that have not
migrated to modules by adding a go.mod file.
When the go command downloads a module at a given version directly
from a repository, it looks up a repository URL for the module path, maps the
version to a revision within the repository, then extracts an archive of the
repository at that revision. If the module’s path is equal
to the repository root path, and the repository
root directory does not contain a go.mod file, the go command synthesizes a
go.mod file in the module cache that contains a module
directive and nothing else. Since synthetic go.mod files
do not contain require directives for their
dependencies, other modules that depend on them may need additional require
directives (with // indirect comments) to ensure each dependency is fetched at
the same version on every build.
When the go command downloads a module from a
proxy, it downloads the go.mod file separately
from the rest of the module content. The proxy is expected to serve a synthetic
go.mod file if the original module didn’t have one.
+incompatible versions
A module released at major version 2 or higher must have a matching major
version suffix on its module path. For example, if a
module is released at v2.0.0, its path must have a /v2 suffix. This allows
the go command to treat multiple major versions of a project as distinct
modules, even if they’re developed in the same repository.
The major version suffix requirement was introduced when module support was
added to the go command, and many repositories had already tagged releases
with major version 2 or higher before that. To maintain compatibility with
these repositories, the go command adds an +incompatible suffix to versions
with major version 2 or higher without a go.mod file. +incompatible
indicates that a version is part of the same module as versions with lower major
version numbers; consequently, the go command may automatically upgrade to
higher +incompatible versions even though it may break the build.
Consider the example requirement below:
require example.com/m v4.1.2+incompatible

The version v4.1.2+incompatible refers to the semantic version
tag v4.1.2 in the repository that provides the
module example.com/m. The module must be in the repository root directory
(that is, the repository root path must also be
example.com/m), and a go.mod file must not be present. The module may have
versions with lower major version numbers like v1.5.2, and the go command
may upgrade automatically to v4.1.2+incompatible from those versions (see
minimal version selection (MVS) for information
on how upgrades work).
A repository that migrates to modules after version v2.0.0 is tagged should
usually release a new major version. In the example above, the author should
create a module with the path example.com/m/v5 and should release version
v5.0.0. The author should also update imports of packages in the module to use
the prefix example.com/m/v5 instead of example.com/m. See Go Modules: v2
and Beyond for a more detailed example.
Note that the +incompatible suffix should not appear on a tag in a repository;
a tag like v4.1.2+incompatible will be ignored. The suffix only appears in
versions used by the go command. See Mapping versions to
commits for details on the distinction between versions and tags.
Note also that the +incompatible suffix may appear on
pseudo-versions. For example,
v2.0.1-20200722182040-012345abcdef+incompatible may be a valid pseudo-version.
Minimal module compatibility
A module released at major version 2 or higher is required to have a major
version suffix on its module
path. The module may or may not be developed in a major
version subdirectory within its repository.
This has implications for packages that import packages within the module when
building GOPATH mode.
Normally in GOPATH mode, a package is stored in a directory matching its
repository’s root path joined with its directory
within the repository. For example, a package in the repository with root path
example.com/repo in the subdirectory sub would be stored in
$GOPATH/src/example.com/repo/sub and would be imported as
example.com/repo/sub.
For a module with a major version suffix, one might expect to find the package
example.com/repo/v2/sub in the directory
$GOPATH/src/example.com/repo/v2/sub. This would require the module to be
developed in the v2 subdirectory of its repository. The go command supports
this but does not require it (see Mapping versions to commits).
If a module is not developed in a major version subdirectory, then its
directory in GOPATH will not contain the major version suffix, and its
packages may be imported without the major version suffix. In the example above,
the package would be found in the directory $GOPATH/src/example.com/repo/sub
and would be imported as example.com/repo/sub.
This creates a problem for packages intended to be built in both module mode
and GOPATH mode: module mode requires a suffix, while GOPATH mode does not.
To fix this, minimal module compatibility was added in Go 1.11 and
was backported to Go 1.9.7 and 1.10.3. When an import path is resolved to a
directory in GOPATH mode:

When resolving an import of the form $modpath/$vn/$dir where:

$modpath is a valid module path,
$vn is a major version suffix,
$dir is a possibly empty subdirectory,

If all of the following are true:

The package $modpath/$vn/$dir is not present in any relevant vendor
directory.
A go.mod file is present in the same directory as the importing file
or in any parent directory up to the $GOPATH/src root,
No $GOPATH[i]/src/$modpath/$vn/$suffix directory exists (for any root
$GOPATH[i]),
The file $GOPATH[d]/src/$modpath/go.mod exists (for some root
$GOPATH[d]) and declares the module path as $modpath/$vn,

Then the import of $modpath/$vn/$dir is resolved to the directory
$GOPATH[d]/src/$modpath/$dir.

This rules allow packages that have been migrated to modules to import other
packages that have been migrated to modules when built in GOPATH mode even
when a major version subdirectory was not used.
Module-aware commands
Most go commands may run in Module-aware mode or GOPATH mode. In
module-aware mode, the go command uses go.mod files to find versioned
dependencies, and it typically loads packages out of the module
cache, downloading modules if they are missing. In GOPATH
mode, the go command ignores modules; it looks in vendor
directories and in GOPATH to find dependencies.
As of Go 1.16, module-aware mode is enabled by default, regardless of whether a
go.mod file is present. In lower versions, module-aware mode was enabled when
a go.mod file was present in the current directory or any parent directory.
Module-aware mode may be controlled with the GO111MODULE environment variable,
which can be set to on, off, or auto.

If GO111MODULE=off, the go command ignores go.mod files and runs in
GOPATH mode.
If GO111MODULE=on or is unset, the go command runs in module-aware mode,
even when no go.mod file is present. Not all commands work without a
go.mod file: see Module commands outside a module.
If GO111MODULE=auto, the go command runs in module-aware mode if a
go.mod file is present in the current directory or any parent directory.
In Go 1.15 and lower, this was the default behavior. go mod subcommands
and go install with a version query run in module-aware
mode even if no go.mod file is present.

In module-aware mode, GOPATH no longer defines the meaning of imports during a
build, but it still stores downloaded dependencies (in GOPATH/pkg/mod; see
Module cache) and installed commands (in GOPATH/bin, unless
GOBIN is set).
Build commands
All commands that load information about packages are module-aware. This
includes:

go build
go fix
go generate
go install
go list
go run
go test
go vet

When run in module-aware mode, these commands use go.mod files to interpret
import paths listed on the command line or written in Go source files. These
commands accept the following flags, common to all module commands.

The -mod flag controls whether go.mod may be automatically updated and
whether the vendor directory is used.

-mod=mod tells the go command to ignore the vendor directory and to
automatically update go.mod, for example, when an
imported package is not provided by any known module.
-mod=readonly tells the go command to ignore the vendor directory and
to report an error if go.mod needs to be updated.
-mod=vendor tells the go command to use the vendor directory. In this
mode, the go command will not use the network or the module cache.
By default, if the go version in go.mod is 1.14 or
higher and a vendor directory is present, the go command acts as if
-mod=vendor were used. Otherwise, the go command acts as if
-mod=readonly were used.
go get rejects this flag as the purpose of the command is to modify
dependencies, which is only allowed by -mod=mod.

The -modcacherw flag instructs the go command to create new directories
in the module cache with read-write permissions instead of making them
read-only. When this flag is used consistently (typically by setting
GOFLAGS=-modcacherw in the environment or by running
go env -w GOFLAGS=-modcacherw), the module cache may be deleted with
commands like rm -r without changing permissions first. The
go clean -modcache command may be used to delete the
module cache, whether or not -modcacherw was used.
The -modfile=file.mod flag instructs the go command to read (and possibly
write) an alternate file instead of go.mod in the module root directory. The
file’s name must end with .mod. A file named go.mod must still be present
in order to determine the module root directory, but it is not accessed. When
-modfile is specified, an alternate go.sum file is also used: its path is
derived from the -modfile flag by trimming the .mod extension and
appending .sum.

Vendoring
When using modules, the go command typically satisfies dependencies by
downloading modules from their sources into the module cache, then loading
packages from those downloaded copies. Vendoring may be used to allow
interoperation with older versions of Go, or to ensure that all files used for a
build are stored in a single file tree.
The go mod vendor command constructs a directory named
vendor in the main module’s root directory containing
copies of all packages needed to build and test packages in the main module.
Packages that are only imported by tests of packages outside the main module are
not included. As with go mod tidy and other module commands,
build constraints except for ignore are not
considered when constructing the vendor directory.
go mod vendor also creates the file vendor/modules.txt that contains a list
of vendored packages and the module versions they were copied from. When
vendoring is enabled, this manifest is used as a source of module version
information, as reported by go list -m and go version -m. When the go command reads vendor/modules.txt, it checks
that the module versions are consistent with go.mod. If go.mod has changed
since vendor/modules.txt was generated, the go command will report an error.
go mod vendor should be run again to update the vendor directory.
If the vendor directory is present in the main module’s root directory, it
will be used automatically if the go version in the main
module’s go.mod file is 1.14 or higher. To explicitly
enable vendoring, invoke the go command with the flag -mod=vendor. To
disable vendoring, use the flag -mod=readonly or -mod=mod.
When vendoring is enabled, build commands like go build and
go test load packages from the vendor directory instead of accessing the
network or the local module cache. The go list -m command only
prints information about modules listed in go.mod. go mod commands such as
go mod download and go mod tidy do not
work differently when vendoring is enabled and will still download modules and
access the module cache. go get also does not work differently when
vendoring is enabled.
Unlike vendoring in GOPATH mode, the go
command ignores vendor directories in locations other than the main module’s
root directory. Additionally, since vendor directories in other modules are not
used, the go command does not include vendor directories when building module
zip files (but see known bugs
#31562 and
#37397).
go get
Usage:
go get [-d] [-t] [-u] [-tool] [build flags] [packages]

Examples:
# Upgrade a specific module.
$ go get golang.org/x/net

# Upgrade modules that provide packages imported by packages in the main module.
$ go get -u ./...

# Upgrade or downgrade to a specific version of a module.
$ go get golang.org/x/text@v0.3.2

# Update to the commit on the module's master branch.
$ go get golang.org/x/text@master

# Remove a dependency on a module and downgrade modules that require it
# to versions that don't require it.
$ go get golang.org/x/text@none

# Upgrade the minimum required Go version for the main module.
$ go get go

# Upgrade the suggested Go toolchain, leaving the minimum Go version alone.
$ go get toolchain

# Upgrade to the latest patch release of the suggested Go toolchain.
$ go get toolchain@patch

The go get command updates module dependencies in the go.mod
file for the main module, then builds and
installs packages listed on the command line.
The first step is to determine which modules to update. go get accepts a list
of packages, package patterns, and module paths as arguments. If a package
argument is specified, go get updates the module that provides the package.
If a package pattern is specified (for example, all or a path with a ...
wildcard), go get expands the pattern to a set of packages, then updates the
modules that provide the packages. If an argument names a module but not a
package (for example, the module golang.org/x/net has no package in its root
directory), go get will update the module but will not build a package. If no
arguments are specified, go get acts as if . were specified (the package in
the current directory); this may be used together with the -u flag to update
modules that provide imported packages.
Each argument may include a version query suffix indicating the
desired version, as in go get golang.org/x/text@v0.3.0. A version query
suffix consists of an @ symbol followed by a version query,
which may indicate a specific version (v0.3.0), a version prefix (v0.3),
a branch or tag name (master), a revision (1234abcd), or one of the special
queries latest, upgrade, patch, or none. If no version is given,
go get uses the @upgrade query.
Once go get has resolved its arguments to specific modules and versions, go get will add, change, or remove require directives in
the main module’s go.mod file to ensure the modules remain at the desired
versions in the future. Note that required versions in go.mod files are
minimum versions and may be increased automatically as new dependencies are
added. See Minimal version selection (MVS) for
details on how versions are selected and conflicts are resolved by module-aware
commands.
Other modules may be upgraded when a module named on the command line is added,
upgraded, or downgraded if the new version of the named module requires other
modules at higher versions. For example, suppose module example.com/a is
upgraded to version v1.5.0, and that version requires module example.com/b
at version v1.2.0. If module example.com/b is currently required at version
v1.1.0, go get example.com/a@v1.5.0 will also upgrade example.com/b to
v1.2.0.

Other modules may be downgraded when a module named on the command line is
downgraded or removed. To continue the above example, suppose module
example.com/b is downgraded to v1.1.0. Module example.com/a would also be
downgraded to a version that requires example.com/b at version v1.1.0 or
lower.

A module requirement may be removed using the version suffix @none. This is a
special kind of downgrade. Modules that depend on the removed module will be
downgraded or removed as needed. A module requirement may be removed even if one
or more of its packages are imported by packages in the main module. In this
case, the next build command may add a new module requirement.
If a module is needed at two different versions (specified explicitly in command
line arguments or to satisfy upgrades and downgrades), go get will report an
error.
After go get has selected a new set of versions, it checks whether any newly
selected module versions or any modules providing packages named on the command
line are retracted or
deprecated. go get prints a warning for each
retracted version or deprecated module it finds. go list -m -u all may be used to check for retractions and deprecations in all
dependencies.
After go get updates the go.mod file, it builds the packages named
on the command line. Executables will be installed in the directory named by
the GOBIN environment variable, which defaults to $GOPATH/bin or
$HOME/go/bin if the GOPATH environment variable is not set.
go get supports the following flags:

The -d flag tells go get not to build or install packages. When -d is
used, go get will only manage dependencies in go.mod. Using go get
without -d to build and install packages is deprecated (as of Go 1.17).
In Go 1.18, -d will always be enabled.
The -u flag tells go get to upgrade modules providing packages
imported directly or indirectly by packages named on the command line.
Each module selected by -u will be upgraded to its latest version unless
it is already required at a higher version (a pre-release).
The -u=patch flag (not -u patch) also tells go get to upgrade
dependencies, but go get will upgrade each dependency to the latest patch
version (similar to the @patch version query).
The -t flag tells go get to consider modules needed to build tests
of packages named on the command line. When -t and -u are used together,
go get will update test dependencies as well.
The -insecure flag should no longer be used. It permits go get to resolve
custom import paths and fetch from repositories and module proxies using
insecure schemes such as HTTP. The GOINSECURE environment
variable provides more fine-grained control and
should be used instead.
The -tool flag instructs go to add a matching tool line to go.mod for each
listed package. If -tool is used with @none, the line will be removed.

Since Go 1.16, go install is the recommended command for
building and installing programs. When used with a version suffix (like
@latest or @v1.4.6), go install builds packages in module-aware mode,
ignoring the go.mod file in the current directory or any parent directory,
if there is one.
go get is more focused on managing requirements in go.mod. The -d flag
is deprecated, and since Go 1.18, it is always enabled.
go install
Usage:
go install [build flags] [packages]

Examples:
# Install the latest version of a program,
# ignoring go.mod in the current directory (if any).
$ go install golang.org/x/tools/gopls@latest

# Install a specific version of a program.
$ go install golang.org/x/tools/gopls@v0.6.4

# Install a program at the version selected by the module in the current directory.
$ go install golang.org/x/tools/gopls

# Install all programs in a directory.
$ go install ./cmd/...

The go install command builds and installs the packages named by the paths
on the command line. Executables (main packages) are installed to the
directory named by the GOBIN environment variable, which defaults to
$GOPATH/bin or $HOME/go/bin if the GOPATH environment variable is not set.
Executables in $GOROOT are installed in $GOROOT/bin or $GOTOOLDIR instead
of $GOBIN. Non-executable packages are built and cached but not installed.
Since Go 1.16, if the arguments have version suffixes (like @latest or
@v1.0.0), go install builds packages in module-aware mode, ignoring the
go.mod file in the current directory or any parent directory if there is
one. This is useful for installing executables without affecting the
dependencies of the main module.
To eliminate ambiguity about which module versions are used in the build, if any
of the arguments have version suffixes, the arguments must satisfy the following
constraints:

Arguments must be package paths or package patterns (with “...” wildcards).
They must not be standard packages (like fmt), meta-patterns (std, cmd,
all, work, tool), or relative or absolute file paths. Note that go install tool
can be used without a version suffix: see below.
All arguments must have the same version suffix. Different queries are not
allowed, even if they refer to the same version.
All arguments must refer to packages in the same module at the same version.
Package path arguments must refer to main packages. Pattern arguments
will only match main packages.
No module is considered the main module.

If the module containing packages named on the command line has a go.mod
file, it must not contain directives (replace and exclude) that would
cause it to be interpreted differently if it were the main module.
The module must not require a higher version of itself.
Vendor directories are not used in any module. (Vendor directories are not
included in module zip files, so go install does not
download them.)

See Version queries for supported version query syntax.
Go 1.15 and lower did not support using version queries with go install.
If the arguments don’t have version suffixes, go install may run in
module-aware mode or GOPATH mode, depending on the GO111MODULE environment
variable and the presence of a go.mod file. See Module-aware
commands for details. If module-aware mode is enabled, go install runs in the context of the main module, which may be different from the
module containing the package being installed. In module-aware mode,
go install tool can be used from a module to install all the tools in the module.
go tool
Usage:
go tool [-n] command [args...]

Example:
$ go tool golang.org/x/tools/cmd/stringer
$ go tool stringer

In module mode, the go tool command can be used to build and run tools
declared in go.mod files using a tool directive.
The command can be specified using the full package path to a tool declared using
a tool directive. The default binary name of the tool, which is the last component of
the package path, excluding the major version suffix, can also be used if it is unique
among installed tools.
go list -m
Usage:
go list -m [-u] [-retracted] [-versions] [list flags] [modules]

Example:
$ go list -m all
$ go list -m -versions example.com/m
$ go list -m -json example.com/m@latest

The -m flag causes go list to list modules instead of packages. In this
mode, the arguments to go list may be modules, module patterns (containing the
... wildcard), version queries, or the special pattern
all, which matches all modules in the build list. If no
arguments are specified, the main module is listed.
When listing modules, the -f flag still specifies a format template applied
to a Go struct, but now a Module struct:
type Module struct {
    Path       string        // module path
    Version    string        // module version
    Versions   []string      // available module versions
    Replace    *Module       // replaced by this module
    Time       *time.Time    // time version was created
    Update     *Module       // available update (with -u)
    Main       bool          // is this the main module?
    Indirect   bool          // module is only indirectly needed by main module
    Dir        string        // directory holding local copy of files, if any
    GoMod      string        // path to go.mod file describing module, if any
    GoVersion  string        // go version used in module
    Retracted  []string      // retraction information, if any (with -retracted or -u)
    Deprecated string        // deprecation message, if any (with -u)
    Error      *ModuleError  // error loading module
}

type ModuleError struct {
    Err string // the error itself
}

The default output is to print the module path and then information about the
version and replacement if any. For example, go list -m all might print:
example.com/main/module
golang.org/x/net v0.1.0
golang.org/x/text v0.3.0 => /tmp/text
rsc.io/pdf v0.1.1

The Module struct has a String method that formats this line of output, so
that the default format is equivalent to -f '{{.String}}'.
Note that when a module has been replaced, its Replace field describes the
replacement module, and its Dir field is set to the replacement
module’s source code, if present. (That is, if Replace is non-nil, then Dir
is set to Replace.Dir, with no access to the replaced source code.)
The -u flag adds information about available upgrades. When the latest version
of a given module is newer than the current one, list -u sets the module’s
Update field to information about the newer module. list -u also prints
whether the currently selected version is retracted
and whether the module is deprecated. The
module’s String method indicates an available upgrade by formatting the newer
version in brackets after the current version. For example, go list -m -u all
might print:
example.com/main/module
golang.org/x/old v1.9.9 (deprecated)
golang.org/x/net v0.1.0 (retracted) [v0.2.0]
golang.org/x/text v0.3.0 [v0.4.0] => /tmp/text
rsc.io/pdf v0.1.1 [v0.1.2]

(For tools, go list -m -u -json all may be more convenient to parse.)
The -versions flag causes list to set the module’s Versions field to a
list of all known versions of that module, ordered according to semantic
versioning, lowest to highest. The flag also changes the default output format
to display the module path followed by the space-separated version list.
Retracted versions are omitted from this list unless the -retracted flag
is also specified.
The -retracted flag instructs list to show retracted versions in the list
printed with the -versions flag and to consider retracted versions when
resolving version queries. For example, go list -m -retracted example.com/m@latest shows the highest release or pre-release
version of the module example.com/m, even if that version is retracted.
retract directives and
deprecations are loaded from the go.mod
file at this version. The -retracted flag was added in Go 1.16.
The template function module takes a single string argument that must be a
module path or query and returns the specified module as a Module struct. If
an error occurs, the result will be a Module struct with a non-nil Error
field.
go mod download
Usage:
go mod download [-x] [-json] [-reuse=old.json] [modules]

Example:
$ go mod download
$ go mod download golang.org/x/mod@v0.2.0

The go mod download command downloads the named modules into the module
cache. Arguments can be module paths or module
patterns selecting dependencies of the main module or version
queries of the form path@version. With no arguments,
download applies to all dependencies of the main module.
The go command will automatically download modules as needed during ordinary
execution. The go mod download command is useful mainly for pre-filling the
module cache or for loading data to be served by a module
proxy.
By default, download writes nothing to standard output. It prints progress
messages and errors to standard error.
The -json flag causes download to print a sequence of JSON objects to
standard output, describing each downloaded module (or failure), corresponding
to this Go struct:
type Module struct {
    Path     string // module path
    Query    string // version query corresponding to this version
    Version  string // module version
    Error    string // error loading module
    Info     string // absolute path to cached .info file
    GoMod    string // absolute path to cached .mod file
    Zip      string // absolute path to cached .zip file
    Dir      string // absolute path to cached source root directory
    Sum      string // checksum for path, version (as in go.sum)
    GoModSum string // checksum for go.mod (as in go.sum)
    Origin   any    // provenance of module
    Reuse    bool   // reuse of old module info is safe
}

The -x flag causes download to print the commands download executes
to standard error.
The -reuse flag accepts the name of file containing the JSON output of a
previous ‘go mod download -json’ invocation. The go command may use this
file to determine that a module is unchanged since the previous invocation
and avoid redownloading it. Modules that are not redownloaded will be marked
in the new output by setting the Reuse field to true. Normally the module
cache provides this kind of reuse automatically; the -reuse flag can be
useful on systems that do not preserve the module cache.
go mod edit
Usage:
go mod edit [editing flags] [-fmt|-print|-json] [go.mod]

Example:
# Add a replace directive.
$ go mod edit -replace example.com/a@v1.0.0=./a

# Remove a replace directive.
$ go mod edit -dropreplace example.com/a@v1.0.0

# Set the go version, add a requirement, and print the file
# instead of writing it to disk.
$ go mod edit -go=1.14 -require=example.com/m@v1.0.0 -print

# Format the go.mod file.
$ go mod edit -fmt

# Format and print a different .mod file.
$ go mod edit -print tools.mod

# Print a JSON representation of the go.mod file.
$ go mod edit -json

The go mod edit command provides a command-line interface for editing and
formatting go.mod files, for use primarily by tools and scripts. go mod edit
reads only one go.mod file; it does not look up information about other
modules. By default, go mod edit reads and writes the go.mod file of the
main module, but a different target file can be specified after the editing
flags.
The editing flags specify a sequence of editing operations.

The -module flag changes the module’s path (the go.mod file’s module
line).
The -go=version flag sets the expected Go language version.
The -require=path@version and -droprequire=path flags add and drop a
requirement on the given module path and version. Note that -require
overrides any existing requirements on path. These flags are mainly for
tools that understand the module graph. Users should prefer go get path@version or go get path@none, which make other go.mod adjustments as
needed to satisfy constraints imposed by other modules. See go get.
The -exclude=path@version and -dropexclude=path@version flags add and drop
an exclusion for the given module path and version. Note that
-exclude=path@version is a no-op if that exclusion already exists.
The -replace=old[@v]=new[@v] flag adds a replacement of the given module
path and version pair. If the @v in old@v is omitted, a replacement
without a version on the left side is added, which applies to all versions of
the old module path. If the @v in new@v is omitted, the new path should be
a local module root directory, not a module path. Note that -replace
overrides any redundant replacements for old[@v], so omitting @v will drop
replacements for specific versions.
The -dropreplace=old[@v] flag drops a replacement of the given module path
and version pair. If the @v is provided, a replacement with the given
version is dropped. An existing replacement without a version on the left side
may still replace the module. If the @v is omitted, a replacement without a
version is dropped.
The -retract=version and -dropretract=version flags add and drop a
retraction for the given version, which may be a single version (like
v1.2.3) or an interval (like [v1.1.0,v1.2.0]). Note that the -retract
flag cannot add a rationale comment for the retract directive. Rationale
comments are recommended and may be shown by go list -m -u and other
commands.
The -tool=path and -droptool=path flags add and drop a tool directive
for the given paths. Note that this will not add necessary dependencies to
the build graph. Users should prefer go get -tool path to add a tool, or
go get -tool path@none to remove one.

The editing flags may be repeated. The changes are applied in the order given.
go mod edit has additional flags that control its output.

The -fmt flag reformats the go.mod file without making other changes.
This reformatting is also implied by any other modifications that use or
rewrite the go.mod file. The only time this flag is needed is if no
other flags are specified, as in go mod edit -fmt.
The -print flag prints the final go.mod in its text format instead of
writing it back to disk.
The -json flag prints the final go.mod in JSON format instead of writing
it back to disk in text format. The JSON output corresponds to these Go types:

type Module struct {
    Path    string
    Version string
}

type GoMod struct {
    Module  ModPath
    Go      string
    Require []Require
    Exclude []Module
    Replace []Replace
    Retract []Retract
}

type ModPath struct {
    Path       string
    Deprecated string
}

type Require struct {
    Path     string
    Version  string
    Indirect bool
}

type Replace struct {
    Old Module
    New Module
}

type Retract struct {
    Low       string
    High      string
    Rationale string
}

type Tool struct {
    Path      string
}

Note that this only describes the go.mod file itself, not other modules
referred to indirectly. For the full set of modules available to a build,
use go list -m -json all. See go list -m.
For example, a tool can obtain the go.mod file as a data structure by
parsing the output of go mod edit -json and can then make changes by invoking
go mod edit with -require, -exclude, and so on.
Tools may also use the package
golang.org/x/mod/modfile
to parse, edit, and format go.mod files.
go mod graph
Usage:
go mod graph [-go=version]

The go mod graph command prints the module requirement
graph (with replacements applied) in text form. For
example:
example.com/main example.com/a@v1.1.0
example.com/main example.com/b@v1.2.0
example.com/a@v1.1.0 example.com/b@v1.1.1
example.com/a@v1.1.0 example.com/c@v1.3.0
example.com/b@v1.1.0 example.com/c@v1.1.0
example.com/b@v1.2.0 example.com/c@v1.2.0

Each vertex in the module graph represents a specific version of a module.
Each edge in the graph represents a requirement on a minimum version of a
dependency.
go mod graph prints the edges of the graph, one per line. Each line has two
space-separated fields: a module version and one of its dependencies. Each
module version is identified as a string of the form path@version. The main
module has no @version suffix, since it has no version.
The -go flag causes go mod graph to report the module graph as
loaded by the given Go version, instead of the version indicated by
the go directive in the go.mod file.
See Minimal version selection (MVS) for more
information on how versions are chosen. See also go list -m for
printing selected versions and go mod why for understanding
why a module is needed.
go mod init
Usage:
go mod init [module-path]

Example:
go mod init
go mod init example.com/m

The go mod init command initializes and writes a new go.mod file in the
current directory, in effect creating a new module rooted at the current
directory. The go.mod file must not already exist.
init accepts one optional argument, the module path for
the new module. See Module paths for instructions on choosing
a module path. If the module path argument is omitted, init will attempt
to infer the module path using import comments in .go files and the
current directory (if in GOPATH).
go mod tidy
Usage:
go mod tidy [-e] [-v] [-x] [-diff] [-go=version] [-compat=version]

go mod tidy ensures that the go.mod file matches the source code in the
module. It adds any missing module requirements necessary to build the current
module’s packages and dependencies, and it removes requirements on modules that
don’t provide any relevant packages. It also adds any missing entries to
go.sum and removes unnecessary entries.
The -e flag (added in Go 1.16) causes go mod tidy to attempt to proceed
despite errors encountered while loading packages.
The -v flag causes go mod tidy to print information about removed modules
to standard error.
The -x flag causes go mod tidy to print the commands tidy executes.
The -diff flag causes go mod tidy not to modify go.mod or go.sum but
instead print the necessary changes as a unified diff. It exits
with a non-zero code if the diff is not empty.
go mod tidy works by loading all of the packages in the main
module, all of its tools, and all of the packages they import,
recursively. This includes packages imported by tests (including tests in other
modules). go mod tidy acts as if all build tags are enabled, so it will
consider platform-specific source files and files that require custom build
tags, even if those source files wouldn’t normally be built. There is one
exception: the ignore build tag is not enabled, so a file with the build
constraint // +build ignore will not be considered. Note that go mod tidy
will not consider packages in the main module in directories named testdata or
with names that start with . or _ unless those packages are explicitly
imported by other packages.
Once go mod tidy has loaded this set of packages, it ensures that each module
that provides one or more packages has a require directive in the main
module’s go.mod file or — if the main module is at go 1.16 or below — is
required by another required module. go mod tidy will add a requirement on the
latest version of each missing module (see Version queries
for the definition of the latest version). go mod tidy will remove require
directives for modules that don’t provide any packages in the set described
above.
go mod tidy may also add or remove // indirect comments on require
directives. An // indirect comment denotes a module that does not provide a
package imported by a package in the main module. (See the require
directive for more detail on when // indirect
dependencies and comments are added.)
If the -go flag is set, go mod tidy will update the go
directive to the indicated version, enabling or disabling
module graph pruning and lazy module loading
(and adding or removing indirect requirements as needed) according to that
version.
By default, go mod tidy will check that the selected
versions of modules do not change when the module graph
is loaded by the Go version immediately preceding the version indicated in the
go directive. The versioned checked for compatibility can also be specified
explicitly via the -compat flag.
go mod vendor
Usage:
go mod vendor [-e] [-v] [-o]

The go mod vendor command constructs a directory named vendor in the main
module’s root directory that contains copies of all packages
needed to support builds and tests of packages in the main module. Packages
that are only imported by tests of packages outside the main module are not
included. As with go mod tidy and other module commands,
build constraints except for ignore are not
considered when constructing the vendor directory.
When vendoring is enabled, the go command will load packages from the vendor
directory instead of downloading modules from their sources into the module
cache and using packages those downloaded copies. See Vendoring
for more information.
go mod vendor also creates the file vendor/modules.txt that contains a list
of vendored packages and the module versions they were copied from. When
vendoring is enabled, this manifest is used as a source of module version
information, as reported by go list -m and go version -m. When the go command reads vendor/modules.txt, it checks
that the module versions are consistent with go.mod. If go.mod changed since
vendor/modules.txt was generated, go mod vendor should be run again.
Note that go mod vendor removes the vendor directory if it exists before
re-constructing it. Local changes should not be made to vendored packages.
The go command does not check that packages in the vendor directory have
not been modified, but one can verify the integrity of the vendor directory
by running go mod vendor and checking that no changes were made.
The -e flag (added in Go 1.16) causes go mod vendor to attempt to proceed
despite errors encountered while loading packages.
The -v flag causes go mod vendor to print the names of vendored modules
and packages to standard error.
The -o flag (added in Go 1.18) causes go mod vendor to output the vendor
tree at the specified directory instead of vendor. The argument can be either
an absolute path or a path relative to the module root.
go mod verify
Usage:
go mod verify

go mod verify checks that dependencies of the main module
stored in the module cache have not been modified since
they were downloaded. To perform this check, go mod verify hashes each
downloaded module .zip file and extracted directory, then
compares those hashes with a hash recorded when the module was first
downloaded. go mod verify checks each module in the build
list (which may be printed with go list -m all).
If all the modules are unmodified, go mod verify prints “all modules
verified”. Otherwise, it reports which modules have been changed and exits with
a non-zero status.
Note that all module-aware commands verify that hashes in the main module’s
go.sum file match hashes recorded for modules downloaded into the module
cache. If a hash is missing from go.sum (for example, because the module is
being used for the first time), the go command verifies its hash using the
checksum database (unless the module path is matched by
GOPRIVATE or GONOSUMDB). See Authenticating modules for
details.
In contrast, go mod verify checks that module .zip files and their extracted
directories have hashes that match hashes recorded in the module cache when they
were first downloaded. This is useful for detecting changes to files in the
module cache after a module has been downloaded and verified. go mod verify
does not download content for modules not in the cache, and it does not use
go.sum files to verify module content. However, go mod verify may download
go.mod files in order to perform minimal version
selection. It will use go.sum to verify those
files, and it may add go.sum entries for missing hashes.
go mod why
Usage:
go mod why [-m] [-vendor] packages...

go mod why shows a shortest path in the import graph from the main module to
each of the listed packages.
The output is a sequence of stanzas, one for each package or module named on the
command line, separated by blank lines. Each stanza begins with a comment line
starting with # giving the target package or module. Subsequent lines give a
path through the import graph, one package per line. If the package or module
is not referenced from the main module, the stanza will display a single
parenthesized note indicating that fact.
For example:
$ go mod why golang.org/x/text/language golang.org/x/text/encoding
# golang.org/x/text/language
rsc.io/quote
rsc.io/sampler
golang.org/x/text/language

# golang.org/x/text/encoding
(main module does not need package golang.org/x/text/encoding)

The -m flag causes go mod why to treat its arguments as a list of modules.
go mod why will print a path to any package in each of the modules. Note that
even when -m is used, go mod why queries the package graph, not the
module graph printed by go mod graph.
The -vendor flag causes go mod why to ignore imports in tests of packages
outside the main module (as go mod vendor does). By default,
go mod why considers the graph of packages matched by the all pattern. This
flag has no effect after Go 1.16 in modules that declare go 1.16 or higher
(using the go directive in go.mod), since the meaning of
all changed to match the set of packages matched by go mod vendor.
go version -m
Usage:
go version [-m] [-v] [file ...]

Example:
# Print Go version used to build go.
$ go version

# Print Go version used to build a specific executable.
$ go version ~/go/bin/gopls

# Print Go version and module versions used to build a specific executable.
$ go version -m ~/go/bin/gopls

# Print Go version and module versions used to build executables in a directory.
$ go version -m ~/go/bin/

go version reports the Go version used to build each executable file named
on the command line.
If no files are named on the command line, go version prints its own version
information.
If a directory is named, go version walks that directory, recursively, looking
for recognized Go binaries and reporting their versions. By default, go version does not report unrecognized files found during a directory scan. The
-v flag causes it to report unrecognized files.
The -m flag causes go version to print each executable’s embedded module
version information, when available. For each executable, go version -m prints
a table with tab-separated columns like the one below.
$ go version -m ~/go/bin/goimports
/home/jrgopher/go/bin/goimports: go1.14.3
        path    golang.org/x/tools/cmd/goimports
        mod     golang.org/x/tools      v0.0.0-20200518203908-8018eb2c26ba      h1:0Lcy64USfQQL6GAJma8BdHCgeofcchQj+Z7j0SXYAzU=
        dep     golang.org/x/mod        v0.2.0          h1:KU7oHjnv3XNWfa5COkzUifxZmxp1TyI7ImMXqFxLwvQ=
        dep     golang.org/x/xerrors    v0.0.0-20191204190536-9bdfabe68543      h1:E7g+9GITq07hpfrRu66IVDexMakfv52eLZ2CXBWiKr4=

The format of the table may change in the future. The same information may be
obtained from
runtime/debug.ReadBuildInfo.
The meaning of each row in the table is determined by the word in the first
column.

path: the path of the main package used to build the executable.
mod: the module containing the main package. The columns are the
module path, version, and sum, respectively. The main
module has the version (devel) and no sum.
dep: a module that provided one or more packages linked into the
executable. Same format as mod.
=>: a replacement for the module on the previous
line. If the replacement is a local directory, only the directory path is
listed (no version or sum). If the replacement is a module version, the path,
version, and sum are listed, as with mod and dep. A replaced module has
no sum.

go clean -modcache
Usage:
go clean [-modcache]

The -modcache flag causes go clean to remove the entire
module cache, including unpacked source code of versioned
dependencies.
This is usually the best way to remove the module cache. By default, most files
and directories in the module cache are read-only to prevent tests and editors
from unintentionally changing files after they’ve been
authenticated. Unfortunately, this causes commands like
rm -r to fail, since files can’t be removed without first making their parent
directories writable.
The -modcacherw flag (accepted by go build and
other module-aware commands) causes new directories in the module cache to
be writable. To pass -modcacherw to all module-aware commands, add it to the
GOFLAGS variable. GOFLAGS may be set in the environment or with go env -w. For
example, the command below sets it permanently:
go env -w GOFLAGS=-modcacherw

-modcacherw should be used with caution; developers should be careful not
to make changes to files in the module cache. go mod verify
may be used to check that files in the cache match hashes in the main module’s
go.sum file.
Version queries
Several commands allow you to specify a version of a module using a version
query, which appears after an @ character following a module or package path
on the command line.
Examples:
go get example.com/m@latest
go mod download example.com/m@master
go list -m -json example.com/m@e3702bed2

A version query may be one of the following:

A fully-specified semantic version, such as v1.2.3, which selects a
specific version. See Versions for syntax.
A semantic version prefix, such as v1 or v1.2, which selects the highest
available version with that prefix.
A semantic version comparison, such as <v1.2.3 or >=v1.5.6, which selects
the nearest available version to the comparison target (the lowest version
for > and >=, and the highest version for < and <=).
A revision identifier for the underlying source repository, such as a commit
hash prefix, revision tag, or branch name. If the revision is tagged with a
semantic version, this query selects that version. Otherwise, this query
selects a pseudo-version for the underlying
commit. Note that branches and tags with names matched by other version
queries cannot be selected this way. For example, the query v2 selects the
latest version starting with v2, not the branch named v2.
The string latest, which selects the highest available release version. If
there are no release versions, latest selects the highest pre-release
version.  If there are no tagged versions, latest selects a pseudo-version for
the commit at the tip of the repository’s default branch.
The string upgrade, which is like latest except that if the module is
currently required at a higher version than the version latest would select
(for example, a pre-release), upgrade will select the current version.
The string patch, which selects the latest available version with the same
major and minor version numbers as the currently required version. If no
version is currently required, patch is equivalent to latest. Since
Go 1.16, go get requires a current version when using patch
(but the -u=patch flag does not have this requirement).

Except for queries for specific named versions or revisions, all queries
consider available versions reported by go list -m -versions (see go list -m). This list contains only tagged versions, not pseudo-versions.
Module versions disallowed by exclude directives in
the main module’s go.mod file are not considered.
Versions covered by retract directives in the go.mod
file from the latest version of the same module are also ignored except when
the -retracted flag is used with go list -m and except when
loading retract directives.
Release versions are preferred over pre-release
versions. For example, if versions v1.2.2 and v1.2.3-pre are available, the
latest query will select v1.2.2, even though v1.2.3-pre is higher. The
<v1.2.4 query would also select v1.2.2, even though v1.2.3-pre is closer
to v1.2.4. If no release or pre-release version is available, the latest,
upgrade, and patch queries will select a pseudo-version for the commit
at the tip of the repository’s default branch. Other queries will report
an error.
Module commands outside a module
Module-aware Go commands normally run in the context of a main
module defined by a go.mod file in the working directory
or a parent directory. Some commands may be run in module-aware mode without a
go.mod file, but most commands work differently or report an error when no
go.mod file is present.
See Module-aware commands for information on enabling and
disabling module-aware mode.

  
    
      Command
      Behavior
    
  
  
    
      
        go build
        go doc
        go fix
        go fmt
        go generate
        go install
        go list
        go run
        go test
        go vet
      
      
        Only packages in the standard library and packages specified as
        .go files on the command line can be loaded, imported, and
        built. Packages from other modules cannot be built, since there is no
        place to record module requirements and ensure deterministic builds.
      
    
    
      go get
      
        Packages and executables may be built and installed as usual. Note that
        there is no main module when go get is run without a
        go.mod file, so replace and
        exclude directives are not applied.
      
    
    
      go list -m
      
        Explicit version queries are required
        for most arguments, except when the -versions flag is used.
      
    
    
      go mod download
      
        Explicit version queries are required
        for most arguments.
      
    
    
      go mod edit
      An explicit file argument is required.
    
    
      
        go mod graph
        go mod tidy
        go mod vendor
        go mod verify
        go mod why
      
      
        These commands require a go.mod file and will report
        an error if one is not present.
      
    
  

go work init
Usage:
go work init [moddirs]

Init initializes and writes a new go.work file in the
current directory, in effect creating a new workspace at the current
directory.
go work init optionally accepts paths to the workspace modules as
arguments. If the argument is omitted, an empty workspace with no
modules will be created.
Each argument path is added to a use directive in the go.work file. The
current go version will also be listed in the go.work file.
go work edit
Usage:
go work edit [editing flags] [go.work]

The go work edit command provides a command-line interface for editing go.work,
for use primarily by tools or scripts. It only reads go.work;
it does not look up information about the modules involved.
If no file is specified, Edit looks for a go.work file in the current
directory and its parent directories
The editing flags specify a sequence of editing operations.

The -fmt flag reformats the go.work file without making other changes.
This reformatting is also implied by any other modifications that use or
rewrite the go.work file. The only time this flag is needed is if no other
flags are specified, as in ‘go work edit -fmt’.
The -use=path and -dropuse=path flags
add and drop a use directive from the go.work file’s set of module directories.
The -replace=old[@v]=new[@v] flag adds a replacement of the given
module path and version pair. If the @v in old@v is omitted, a
replacement without a version on the left side is added, which applies
to all versions of the old module path. If the @v in new@v is omitted,
the new path should be a local module root directory, not a module
path. Note that -replace overrides any redundant replacements for old[@v],
so omitting @v will drop existing replacements for specific versions.
The -dropreplace=old[@v] flag drops a replacement of the given
module path and version pair. If the @v is omitted, a replacement without
a version on the left side is dropped.
The -go=version flag sets the expected Go language version.

The editing flags may be repeated. The changes are applied in the order given.
go work edit has additional flags that control its output

The -print flag prints the final go.work in its text format instead of
writing it back to go.mod.
The -json flag prints the final go.work file in JSON format instead of
writing it back to go.mod. The JSON output corresponds to these Go types:

type Module struct {
    Path    string
    Version string
}

type GoWork struct {
    Go        string
    Directory []Directory
    Replace   []Replace
}

type Use struct {
    Path       string
    ModulePath string
}

type Replace struct {
    Old Module
    New Module
}

go work use
Usage:
go work use [-r] [moddirs]

The go work use command provides a command-line interface for adding
directories, optionally recursively, to a go.work file.
A use directive will be added to the go.work file for each argument
directory listed on the command line go.work file, if it exists on disk,
or removed from the go.work file if it does not exist on disk.
The -r flag searches recursively for modules in the argument
directories, and the use command operates as if each of the directories
were specified as arguments.
go work sync
Usage:
go work sync

The go work sync command syncs the workspace’s build list back to the
workspace’s modules.
The workspace’s build list is the set of versions of all the
(transitive) dependency modules used to do builds in the workspace. go work sync generates that build list using the Minimal Version Selection
(MVS)
algorithm, and then syncs those versions back to each of modules
specified in the workspace (with use directives).
Once the workspace build list is computed, the go.mod file for each
module in the workspace is rewritten with the dependencies relevant
to that module upgraded to match the workspace build list.
Note that Minimal Version Selection
guarantees that the build list’s version of each module is always
the same or higher than that in each workspace module.
Module proxies
GOPROXY protocol
A module proxy is an HTTP server that can respond to GET requests
for paths specified below. The requests have no query parameters, and no
specific headers are required, so even a site serving from a fixed file system
(including a file:// URL) can be a module proxy.
Successful HTTP responses must have the status code 200 (OK). Redirects (3xx)
are followed. Responses with status codes 4xx and 5xx are treated as errors.
The error codes 404 (Not Found) and 410 (Gone) indicate that the
requested module or version is not available on the proxy, but it may be found
elsewhere. Error responses should have content type text/plain with
charset either utf-8 or us-ascii.
The go command may be configured to contact proxies or source control servers
using the GOPROXY environment variable, which accepts a list of proxy URLs.
The list may include the keywords direct or off (see Environment
variables for details). List elements may be separated
by commas (,) or pipes (|), which determine error fallback behavior. When a
URL is followed by a comma, the go command falls back to later sources only
after a 404 (Not Found) or 410 (Gone) response. When a URL is followed by a
pipe, the go command falls back to later sources after any error, including
non-HTTP errors such as timeouts. This error handling behavior lets a proxy act
as a gatekeeper for unknown modules. For example, a proxy could respond with
error 403 (Forbidden) for modules not on an approved list (see Private proxy
serving private modules).
The table below specifies queries that a module proxy must respond to. For each
path, $base is the path portion of a proxy URL,$module is a module path, and
$version is a version. For example, if the proxy URL is
https://example.com/mod, and the client is requesting the go.mod file for
the module golang.org/x/text at version v0.3.2, the client would send a
GET request for https://example.com/mod/golang.org/x/text/@v/v0.3.2.mod.
To avoid ambiguity when serving from case-insensitive file systems,
the $module and $version elements are case-encoded by replacing every
uppercase letter with an exclamation mark followed by the corresponding
lower-case letter. This allows modules example.com/M and example.com/m to
both be stored on disk, since the former is encoded as example.com/!m.

  
    
      Path
      Description
    
  
  
    
      $base/$module/@v/list
      
        Returns a list of known versions of the given module in plain text, one
        per line. This list should not include pseudo-versions.
      
    
    
      $base/$module/@v/$version.info
      
        
          Returns JSON-formatted metadata about a specific version of a module.
          The response must be a JSON object that corresponds to the Go data
          structure below:
        
        
type Info struct {
    Version string    // version string
    Time    time.Time // commit time
}

        
          The Version field is required and must contain a valid,
          canonical version (see
          Versions). The $version in the
          request path does not need to be the same version or even a valid
          version; this endpoint may be used to find versions for branch names
          or revision identifiers. However, if $version is a
          canonical version with a major version compatible with
          $module, the Version field in a successful
          response must be the same.
        
        
          The Time field is optional. If present, it must be a
          string in RFC 3339 format. It indicates the time when the version
          was created.
        
        
          More fields may be added in the future, so other names are reserved.
        
      
    
    
      $base/$module/@v/$version.mod
      
        Returns the go.mod file for a specific version of a
        module. If the module does not have a go.mod file at the
        requested version, a file containing only a module
        statement with the requested module path must be returned. Otherwise,
        the original, unmodified go.mod file must be returned.
      
    
    
      $base/$module/@v/$version.zip
      
        Returns a zip file containing the contents of a specific version of
        a module. See Module zip files for details
        on how this zip file must be formatted.
      
    
    
      $base/$module/@latest
      
        Returns JSON-formatted metadata about the latest known version of a
        module in the same format as
        $base/$module/@v/$version.info. The latest version should
        be the version of the module that the go command should use
        if $base/$module/@v/list is empty or no listed version is
        suitable. This endpoint is optional, and module proxies are not required
        to implement it.
      
    
  

When resolving the latest version of a module, the go command will request
$base/$module/@v/list, then, if no suitable versions are found,
$base/$module/@latest. The go command prefers, in order: the semantically
highest release version, the semantically highest pre-release version, and the
chronologically most recent pseudo-version. In Go 1.12 and earlier, the go
command considered pseudo-versions in $base/$module/@v/list to be pre-release
versions, but this is no longer true since Go 1.13.
A module proxy must always serve the same content for successful
responses for $base/$module/$version.mod and $base/$module/$version.zip
queries. This content is cryptographically authenticated
using go.sum files and, by default, the
checksum database.
The go command caches most content it downloads from module proxies in its
module cache in $GOPATH/pkg/mod/cache/download. Even when downloading directly
from version control systems, the go command synthesizes explicit info,
mod, and zip files and stores them in this directory, the same as if it had
downloaded them directly from a proxy. The cache layout is the same as the proxy
URL space, so serving $GOPATH/pkg/mod/cache/download at (or copying it to)
https://example.com/proxy would let users access cached module versions by
setting GOPROXY to https://example.com/proxy.
Communicating with proxies
The go command may download module source code and metadata from a module
proxy. The GOPROXY environment
variable may be used to configure which proxies the
go command may connect to and whether it may communicate directly with
version control systems. Downloaded module data is saved in the module
cache. The go command will only contact a proxy when it
needs information not already in the cache.
The GOPROXY protocol section describes requests that
may be sent to a GOPROXY server. However, it’s also helpful to understand
when the go command makes these requests. For example, go build follows
the procedure below:

Compute the build list by reading go.mod
files and performing minimal version selection
(MVS).
Read the packages named on the command line and the packages they import.
If a package is not provided by any module in the build list, find a module
that provides it. Add a module requirement on its latest version to go.mod,
and start over.
Build packages after everything is loaded.

When the go command computes the build list, it loads the go.mod file for
each module in the module graph. If a go.mod file is not
in the cache, the go command will download it from the proxy using a
$module/@v/$version.mod request (where $module is the module path and
$version is the version). These requests can be tested with a tool like
curl. For example, the command below downloads the go.mod file for
golang.org/x/mod at version v0.2.0:
$ curl https://proxy.golang.org/golang.org/x/mod/@v/v0.2.0.mod
module golang.org/x/mod

go 1.12

require (
    golang.org/x/crypto v0.0.0-20191011191535-87dc89f01550
    golang.org/x/tools v0.0.0-20191119224855-298f0cb1881e
    golang.org/x/xerrors v0.0.0-20191011141410-1b5146add898
)

In order to load a package, the go command needs the source code for the
module that provides it. Module source code is distributed in .zip files which
are extracted into the module cache. If a module .zip is not in the cache,
the go command will download it using a $module/@v/$version.zip request.
$ curl -O https://proxy.golang.org/golang.org/x/mod/@v/v0.2.0.zip
$ unzip -l v0.2.0.zip | head
Archive:  v0.2.0.zip
  Length      Date    Time    Name
---------  ---------- -----   ----
     1479  00-00-1980 00:00   golang.org/x/mod@v0.2.0/LICENSE
     1303  00-00-1980 00:00   golang.org/x/mod@v0.2.0/PATENTS
      559  00-00-1980 00:00   golang.org/x/mod@v0.2.0/README
       21  00-00-1980 00:00   golang.org/x/mod@v0.2.0/codereview.cfg
      214  00-00-1980 00:00   golang.org/x/mod@v0.2.0/go.mod
     1476  00-00-1980 00:00   golang.org/x/mod@v0.2.0/go.sum
     5224  00-00-1980 00:00   golang.org/x/mod@v0.2.0/gosumcheck/main.go

Note that .mod and .zip requests are separate, even though go.mod files
are usually contained within .zip files. The go command may need to download
go.mod files for many different modules, and .mod files are much smaller
than .zip files. Additionally, if a Go project does not have a go.mod file,
the proxy will serve a synthetic go.mod file that only contains a module
directive. Synthetic go.mod files are generated by the
go command when downloading from a version control system.
If the go command needs to load a package not provided by any module in the
build list, it will attempt to find a new module that provides it. The section
Resolving a package to a module describes this process. In
summary, the go command requests information about the latest version of each
module path that could possibly contain the package. For example, for the
package golang.org/x/net/html, the go command would try to find the latest
versions of the modules golang.org/x/net/html, golang.org/x/net,
golang.org/x/, and golang.org. Only golang.org/x/net actually exists and
provides that package, so the go command uses the latest version of that
module. If more than one module provides the package, the go command will use
the module with the longest path.
When the go command requests the latest version of a module, it first sends a
request for $module/@v/list. If the list is empty or none of the returned
versions can be used, it sends a request for $module/@latest. Once a version
is chosen, the go command sends a $module/@v/$version.info request for
metadata. It may then send $module/@v/$version.mod and
$module/@v/$version.zip requests to load the go.mod file and source code.
$ curl https://proxy.golang.org/golang.org/x/mod/@v/list
v0.1.0
v0.2.0

$ curl https://proxy.golang.org/golang.org/x/mod/@v/v0.2.0.info
{"Version":"v0.2.0","Time":"2020-01-02T17:33:45Z"}

After downloading a .mod or .zip file, the go command computes a
cryptographic hash and checks that it matches a hash in the main module’s
go.sum file. If the hash is not present in go.sum, by default, the go
command retrieves it from the checksum database. If the
computed hash does not match, the go command reports a security error and does
not install the file in the module cache. The GOPRIVATE and GONOSUMDB
environment variables may be used to disable requests
to the checksum database for specific modules. The GOSUMDB environment
variable may also be set to off to disable requests to the checksum database
entirely. See Authenticating modules for more
information. Note that version lists and version metadata returned for .info
requests are not authenticated and may change over time.
Serving modules directly from a proxy
Most modules are developed and served from a version control repository. In
direct mode, the go command downloads such a module with
a version control tool (see Version control systems). It’s also possible
to serve a module directly from a module proxy. This is useful for organizations
that want to serve modules without exposing their version control servers and
for organizations that use version control tools the go command does not
support.
When the go command downloads a module in direct mode, it first looks up the
module server’s URL with an HTTP GET request based on the module path. It looks
for a <meta> tag with the name go-import in the HTML response. The tag’s
content must contain the repository root
path, the version control system, and the URL,
separated by spaces. See Finding a repository for a module path for
details.
If the version control system is mod, the go command downloads the module
from the given URL using the GOPROXY protocol.
For example, suppose the go command is attempting to download the module
example.com/gopher at version v1.0.0. It sends a request to
https://example.com/gopher?go-get=1. The server responds with an HTML document
containing the tag:
<meta name="go-import" content="example.com/gopher mod https://modproxy.example.com">

Based on this response, the go command downloads the module by sending
requests for https://modproxy.example.com/example.com/gopher/@v/v1.0.0.info,
v1.0.0.mod, and v1.0.0.zip.
Note that modules served directly from a proxy cannot be downloaded with
go get in GOPATH mode.
Version control systems
The go command may download module source code and metadata directly from a
version control repository. Downloading a module from a
proxy is usually faster, but connecting directly
to a repository is necessary if a proxy is not available or if a module’s
repository is not accessible to a proxy (frequently true for private
repositories). Git, Subversion, Mercurial, Bazaar, and Fossil are supported. A
version control tool must be installed in a directory in PATH in order for the
go command to use it.
To download specific modules from source repositories instead of a proxy, set
the GOPRIVATE or GONOPROXY environment variables. To configure the go
command to download all modules directly from source repositories, set GOPROXY
to direct. See Environment variables for more
information.
Finding a repository for a module path
When the go command downloads a module in direct mode, it starts by locating
the repository that contains the module.
If the module path has a VCS qualifier (one of .bzr, .fossil, .git, .hg,
.svn) at the end of a path component, the go command will use everything up
to that path qualifier as the repository URL. For example, for the module
example.com/foo.git/bar, the go command downloads the repository at
example.com/foo using git, expecting to find the module in the bar
subdirectory. The go command will guess the protocol to use based on the
protocols supported by the version control tool.
If the module path does not have a qualifier, the go command sends an HTTP
GET request to a URL derived from the module path with a ?go-get=1 query
string. For example, for the module golang.org/x/mod, the go command may
send the following requests:
https://golang.org/x/mod?go-get=1 (preferred)
http://golang.org/x/mod?go-get=1  (fallback, only with GOINSECURE)

The go command follows redirects but otherwise ignores response status
codes, so the server may respond with a 404 or any other error status. The
GOINSECURE environment variable may be set to allow fallback and redirects to
unencrypted HTTP for specific modules.
The server must respond with an HTML document containing a <meta> tag in the
document’s <head>. The <meta> tag should appear early in the document to
avoid confusing the go command’s restricted parser. In particular, it should
appear before any raw JavaScript or CSS. The <meta> tag must have the form:
<meta name="go-import" content="root-path vcs repo-url [subdirectory]">

root-path is the repository root path, the portion of the module path that
corresponds to the repository’s root directory, or to the subdirectory,
if present and using Go 1.25 or later (see the section on subdirectory below).
It must be a prefix or an exact  match of the requested module path. If it’s
not an exact match, another request is made for the prefix to verify the <meta>
tags match.
vcs is the version control system. It must be one of the tools listed in the
table below or the keyword mod, which instructs the go command to download
the module from the given URL using the GOPROXY
protocol. See Serving modules directly from a
proxy for details.
repo-url is the repository’s URL, containing a scheme and not containing
a .vcs qualifier.  Insecure protocols (like http:// and git://) may only be used
if the module path is matched by the GOINSECURE environment variable.
subdirectory, if present, is the slash-separated subdirectory of the repository
that the root-path corresponds to, overriding the default of the repository’s
root directory. go-import meta tags providing a subdirectory are only recognized
by Go 1.25 and later. Attempts to fetch resolve modules on earlier versions of
Go will ignore the meta tag and result in a resolution failure if the module can
not be resolved elsewhere.

  
    
      Name
      Command
      GOVCS default
      Secure schemes
    
  
  
    
      Bazaar
      bzr
      Private only
      https, bzr+ssh
    
    
      Fossil
      fossil
      Private only
      https
    
    
      Git
      git
      Public and private
      https, git+ssh, ssh
    
    
      Mercurial
      hg
      Public and private
      https, ssh
    
    
      Subversion
      svn
      Private only
      https, svn+ssh
    
  

As an example, consider golang.org/x/mod again. The go command sends
a request to https://golang.org/x/mod?go-get=1. The server responds
with an HTML document containing the tag:
<meta name="go-import" content="golang.org/x/mod git https://go.googlesource.com/mod">

From this response, the go command will use the Git repository at
the remote URL https://go.googlesource.com/mod.
GitHub and other popular hosting services respond to ?go-get=1 queries for
all repositories, so usually no server configuration is necessary for modules
hosted at those sites.
After the repository URL is found, the go command will clone the repository
into the module cache. In general, the go command tries to avoid fetching
unneeded data from a repository. However, the actual commands used vary by
version control system and may change over time. For Git, the go command can
list most available versions without downloading commits. It will usually fetch
commits without downloading ancestor commits, but doing so is sometimes
necessary.
Mapping versions to commits
The go command may check out a module within a repository at a specific
canonical version like v1.2.3, v2.4.0-beta, or
v3.0.0+incompatible. Each module version should have a semantic version
tag within the repository that indicates which revision should be checked
out for a given version.
If a module is defined in the repository root directory or in a major version
subdirectory of the root directory, then each version tag name is equal to the
corresponding version. For example, the module golang.org/x/text is defined in
the root directory of its repository, so the version v0.3.2 has the tag
v0.3.2 in that repository. This is true for most modules.
If a module is defined in a subdirectory within the repository, that is, the
module subdirectory portion of the module path is
not empty, then each tag name must be prefixed with the module subdirectory,
followed by a slash. For example, the module golang.org/x/tools/gopls is
defined in the gopls subdirectory of the repository with root path
golang.org/x/tools. The version v0.4.0 of that module must have the tag
named gopls/v0.4.0 in that repository.
The major version number of a semantic version tag must be consistent with the
module path’s major version suffix (if any). For example, the tag v1.0.0 could
belong to the module example.com/mod but not example.com/mod/v2, which would
have tags like v2.0.0.
A tag with major version v2 or higher may belong to a module without a major
version suffix if no go.mod file is present, and the module is in the
repository root directory. This kind of version is denoted with the suffix
+incompatible. The version tag itself must not have the suffix. See
Compatibility with non-module repositories.
Once a tag is created, it should not be deleted or changed to a different
revision. Versions are authenticated to ensure safe,
repeatable builds. If a tag is modified, clients may see a security error when
downloading it. Even after a tag is deleted, its content may remain
available on module proxies.
Mapping pseudo-versions to commits
The go command may check out a module within a repository at a specific
revision, encoded as a pseudo-version like
v1.3.2-0.20191109021931-daa7c04131f5.
The last 12 characters of the pseudo-version (daa7c04131f5 in the example
above) indicate a revision in the repository to check out. The meaning of this
depends on the version control system. For Git and Mercurial, this is a prefix
of a commit hash. For Subversion, this is a zero-padded revision number.
Before checking out a commit, the go command verifies that the timestamp
(20191109021931 above) matches the commit date. It also verifies that the base
version (v1.3.1, the version before v1.3.2 in the example above) corresponds
to a semantic version tag that is an ancestor of the commit. These checks ensure
that module authors have full control over how pseudo-versions compare with
other released versions.
See Pseudo-versions for more information.
Mapping branches and commits to versions
A module may be checked out at a specific branch, tag, or revision using a
version query.
go get example.com/mod@master

The go command converts these names into canonical
versions that can be used with minimal version
selection (MVS). MVS depends on the ability to
order versions unambiguously. Branch names and revisions can’t be compared
reliably over time, since they depend on repository structure which may change.
If a revision is tagged with one or more semantic version tags like v1.2.3,
the tag for the highest valid version will be used. The go command only
considers semantic version tags that could belong to the target module; for
example, the tag v1.5.2 would not be considered for example.com/mod/v2 since
the major version doesn’t match the module path’s suffix.
If a revision is not tagged with a valid semantic version tag, the go command
will generate a pseudo-version. If the revision has
ancestors with valid semantic version tags, the highest ancestor version will be
used as the pseudo-version base. See Pseudo-versions.
Module directories within a repository
Once a module’s repository has been checked out at a specific revision, the go
command must locate the directory that contains the module’s go.mod file
(the module’s root directory).
Recall that a module path consists of three parts: a
repository root path (corresponding to the repository root directory),
a module subdirectory, and a major version suffix (only for modules released at
v2 or higher).
For most modules, the module path is equal to the repository root path, so
the module’s root directory is the repository’s root directory.
Modules are sometimes defined in repository subdirectories. This is typically
done for large repositories with multiple components that need to be released
and versioned independently. Such a module is expected to be found in a
subdirectory that matches the part of the module’s path after the repository
root path.  For example, suppose the module example.com/monorepo/foo/bar is in
the repository with root path example.com/monorepo. Its go.mod file must be
in the foo/bar subdirectory.
If a module is released at major version v2 or higher, its path must have a
major version suffix. A module with a major version
suffix may be defined in one of two subdirectories: one with the suffix,
and one without. For example, suppose a new version of the module above is
released with the path example.com/monorepo/foo/bar/v2. Its go.mod file
may be in either foo/bar or foo/bar/v2.
Subdirectories with a major version suffix are major version
subdirectories. They may be used to develop multiple major versions of a
module on a single branch. This may be unnecessary when development of multiple
major versions proceeds on separate branches. However, major version
subdirectories have an important property: in GOPATH mode, package import
paths exactly match directories under GOPATH/src. The go command provides
minimal module compatibility in GOPATH mode (see Compatibility with
non-module repositories), so major version
subdirectories aren’t always necessary for compatibility with projects built in
GOPATH mode. Older tools that don’t support minimal module compatibility
may have problems though.
Once the go command has found the module root directory, it creates a .zip
file of the contents of the directory, then extracts the .zip file into the
module cache. See File path and size constraints
for details on what files may be included in the .zip file. The contents of
the .zip file are authenticated before extraction into the
module cache the same way they would be if the .zip file were downloaded from
a proxy.
Module zip files do not include the contents of vendor directories or any
nested modules (subdirectories that contain go.mod files). This means a module
must take care not to refer to files outside its directory or in other modules.
For example, //go:embed patterns
must not match files in nested modules. This behavior may serve as a useful
workaround in situations where files should not be included in a module.
For example, if a repository has large files checked into a testdata
directory, the module author could add an empty go.mod file in testdata
so their users don’t need to download those files. Of course, this may reduce
coverage for users testing their dependencies.
Special case for LICENSE files
When the go command creates a .zip file for a module that is not in the
repository root directory, if the module does not have a file named LICENSE
in its root directory (alongside go.mod), the go command will copy the
file named LICENSE from the repository root directory if it is present in
the same revision.
This special case allows the same LICENSE file to apply to all modules within
a repository. This only applies to files named LICENSE specifically, without
extensions like .txt. Unfortunately, this cannot be extended without breaking
cryptographic sums of existing modules; see Authenticating
modules. Other tools and websites like
pkg.go.dev may recognize files with other names.
Note also that the go command does not include symbolic links when creating
module .zip files; see File path and size
constraints. Consequently, if a repository does not
have a LICENSE file in its root directory, authors may instead create copies
of their license files in modules defined in subdirectories to ensure those
files are included in module .zip files.
Controlling version control tools with GOVCS
The go command’s ability to download modules with version control commands
like git is critical to the decentralized package ecosystem, in which
code can be imported from any server. It is also a potential security problem
if a malicious server finds a way to cause the invoked version control command
to run unintended code.
To balance the functionality and security concerns, the go command by default
will only use git and hg to download code from public servers. It will use
any known version control system to download code from private
servers, defined as those hosting packages matching the GOPRIVATE environment
variable. The rationale behind allowing only Git and
Mercurial is that these two systems have had the most attention to issues of
being run as clients of untrusted servers. In contrast, Bazaar, Fossil, and
Subversion have primarily been used in trusted, authenticated environments and
are not as well scrutinized as attack surfaces.
The version control command restrictions only apply when using direct version
control access to download code. When downloading modules from a proxy, the go
command uses the GOPROXY protocol instead, which is
always permitted. By default, the go command uses the Go module mirror
(proxy.golang.org) for public modules and only
falls back to version control for private modules or when the mirror refuses to
serve a public package (typically for legal reasons). Therefore, clients can
still access public code served from Bazaar, Fossil, or Subversion repositories
by default, because those downloads use the Go module mirror, which takes on the
security risk of running the version control commands using a custom sandbox.
The GOVCS variable can be used to change the allowed version control systems
for specific modules. The GOVCS variable applies when building packages
in both module-aware mode and GOPATH mode. When using modules, the patterns match
against the module path. When using GOPATH, the patterns match against the
import path corresponding to the root of the version control repository.
The general form of the GOVCS variable is a comma-separated list of
pattern:vcslist rules. The pattern is a glob pattern that
must match one or more leading elements of the module or import path. The
vcslist is a pipe-separated list of allowed version control commands, or all
to allow use of any known command, or off to allow nothing. Note that if a
module matches a pattern with vcslist off, it may still be downloaded if the
origin server uses the mod scheme, which instructs the go command to download
the module using the GOPROXY protocol. The earliest
matching pattern in the list applies, even if later patterns might also match.
For example, consider:
GOVCS=github.com:git,evil.com:off,*:git|hg

With this setting, code with a module or import path beginning with
github.com/ can only use git; paths on evil.com cannot use any version
control command, and all other paths (* matches everything) can use
only git or hg.
The special patterns public and private match public and private
module or import paths. A path is private if it matches the GOPRIVATE
variable; otherwise it is public.
If no rules in the GOVCS variable match a particular module or import path,
the go command applies its default rule, which can now be summarized
in GOVCS notation as public:git|hg,private:all.
To allow unfettered use of any version control system for any package, use:
GOVCS=*:all

To disable all use of version control, use:
GOVCS=*:off

The go env -w
command can be
used to set the GOVCS variable for future go command invocations.
GOVCS was introduced in Go 1.16. Earlier versions of Go may use any known
version control tool for any module.
Module zip files
Module versions are distributed as .zip files. There is rarely any need to
interact directly with these files, since the go command creates, downloads,
and extracts them automatically from module proxies and
version control repositories. However, it’s still useful to know about these
files to understand cross-platform compatibility constraints or when
implementing a module proxy.
The go mod download command downloads zip files
for one or more modules, then extracts those files into the module
cache. Depending on GOPROXY and other environment
variables, the go command may either download
zip files from a proxy or clone source control repositories and create
zip files from them. The -json flag may be used to find the location of
download zip files and their extracted contents in the module cache.
The golang.org/x/mod/zip
package may be used to create, extract, or check contents of zip files
programmatically.
File path and size constraints
There are a number of restrictions on the content of module zip files. These
constraints ensure that zip files can be extracted safely and consistently on
a wide range of platforms.

A module zip file may be at most 500 MiB in size. The total uncompressed size
of its files is also limited to 500 MiB. go.mod files are limited to 16 MiB.
LICENSE files are also limited to 16 MiB. These limits exist to mitigate
denial of service attacks on users, proxies, and other parts of the module
ecosystem. Repositories that contain more than 500 MiB of files in a module
directory tree should tag module versions at commits that only include files
needed to build the module’s packages; videos, models, and other large assets
are usually not needed for builds.
Each file within a module zip file must begin with the prefix
$module@$version/ where $module is the module path and $version is the
version, for example, golang.org/x/mod@v0.3.0/. The module path must be
valid, the version must be valid and canonical, and the version must match the
module path’s major version suffix. See Module paths and
versions for specific definitions and restrictions.
File modes, timestamps, and other metadata are ignored.
Empty directories (entries with paths ending with a slash) may be included
in module zip files but are not extracted. The go command does not include
empty directories in zip files it creates.
Symbolic links and other irregular files are ignored when creating zip files,
since they aren’t portable across operating systems and file systems, and
there’s no portable way to represent them in the zip file format.
Files within directories named vendor are ignored when creating zip files,
since vendor directories outside the main module are never used.
Files within directories containing go.mod files, other than the module
root directory, are ignored when creating zip files, since they are not part
of the module. The go command ignores subdirectories containing go.mod
files when extracting zip files.
No two files within a zip file may have paths equal under Unicode case-folding
(see strings.EqualFold).
This ensures that zip files can be extracted on case-insensitive file systems
without collisions.
A go.mod file may or may not appear in the top-level directory
($module@$version/go.mod). If present, it must have the name go.mod (all
lowercase). Files named go.mod are not allowed in any other directory.
File and directory names within a module may consist of Unicode letters, ASCII
digits, the ASCII space character (U+0020), and the ASCII punctuation
characters !#$%&()+,-.=@[]^_{}~. Note that package paths may not contain all
these characters. See
module.CheckFilePath
and
module.CheckImportPath
for the differences.
A file or directory name up to the first dot must not be a reserved file name
on Windows, regardless of case (CON, com1, NuL, and so on).

Private modules
Go modules are frequently developed and distributed on version control servers
and module proxies that aren’t available on the public internet. The go
command can download and build modules from private sources, though it usually
requires some configuration.
The environment variables below may be used to configure access to private
modules. See Environment variables for details. See
also Privacy for information on controlling
information sent to public servers.

GOPROXY — list of module proxy URLs. The go command will attempt to
download modules from each server in sequence. The keyword direct instructs
the go command to download modules from version control repositories
where they’re developed instead of using a proxy.
GOPRIVATE — list of glob patterns of module path prefixes that should be
considered private. Acts as a default value for GONOPROXY and GONOSUMDB.
GONOPROXY — list of glob patterns of module path prefixes that should not be
downloaded from a proxy. The go command will download matching modules from
version control repositories where they’re developed, regardless of GOPROXY.
GONOSUMDB — list of glob patterns of module path prefixes that should not be
checked using the public checksum database,
sum.golang.org.
GOINSECURE — list of glob patterns of module path prefixes that may be
retrieved over HTTP and other insecure protocols.

These variables may be set in the development environment (for example, in a
.profile file), or they may be set permanently with go env -w.
The rest of this section describes common patterns for providing access to
private module proxies and version control repositories.
Private proxy serving all modules
A central private proxy server that serves all modules (public and private)
provides the most control for administrators and requires the least
configuration for individual developers.
To configure the go command to use such a server, set the following
environment variables, replacing https://proxy.corp.example.com with your
proxy URL and corp.example.com with your module prefix:
GOPROXY=https://proxy.corp.example.com
GONOSUMDB=corp.example.com

The GOPROXY setting instructs the go command to only download modules from
https://proxy.corp.example.com; the go command will not connect to other
proxies or version control repositories.
The GONOSUMDB setting instructs the go command not to use the public
checksum database to authenticate modules with paths starting with
corp.example.com.
A proxy running in this configuration will likely need read access to
private version control servers. It will also need access to the public internet
to download new versions of public modules.
There are several existing implementations of GOPROXY servers that may be used
this way. A minimal implementation would serve files from a module
cache directory and would use go mod download (with suitable configuration) to retrieve missing
modules.
Private proxy serving private modules
A private proxy server may serve private modules without also serving publicly
available modules. The go command can be configured to fall back to
public sources for modules that aren’t available on the private server.
To configure the go command to work this way, set the following environment
variables, replacing https://proxy.corp.example.com with the proxy URL and
corp.example.com with the module prefix:
GOPROXY=https://proxy.corp.example.com,https://proxy.golang.org,direct
GONOSUMDB=corp.example.com

The GOPROXY setting instructs the go command to try to download modules from
https://proxy.corp.example.com first. If that server responds with 404 (Not
Found) or 410 (Gone), the go command will fall back to
https://proxy.golang.org, then to direct connections to repositories.
The GONOSUMDB setting instructs the go command not to use the public
checksum database to authenticate modules whose paths start with
corp.example.com.
Note that a proxy used in this configuration may still control access to public
modules, even though it doesn’t serve them. If the proxy responds to a request
with an error status other than 404 or 410, the go command will not fall back
to later entries in the GOPROXY list. For example, the proxy could respond
with 403 (Forbidden) for a module with an unsuitable license or with known
security vulnerabilities.
Direct access to private modules
The go command may be configured to bypass public proxies and download private
modules directly from version control servers. This is useful when running a
private proxy server is not feasible.
To configure the go command to work this way, set GOPRIVATE, replacing
corp.example.com the private module prefix:
GOPRIVATE=corp.example.com

The GOPROXY variable does not need to be changed in this situation. It
defaults to https://proxy.golang.org,direct, which instructs the go command
to attempt to download modules from https://proxy.golang.org first, then fall
back to a direct connection if that proxy responds with 404 (Not Found) or 410
(Gone).
The GOPRIVATE setting instructs the go command not to connect to a proxy or
to the checksum database for modules starting with corp.example.com.
An internal HTTP server may still be needed to resolve module paths to
repository URLs. For example, when the go command downloads the
module corp.example.com/mod, it will send a GET request to
https://corp.example.com/mod?go-get=1, and it will look for the repository URL
in the response. To avoid this requirement, ensure that each private module path
has a VCS suffix (like .git) marking the repository root prefix. For example,
when the go command downloads the module corp.example.com/repo.git/mod, it
will clone the Git repository at https://corp.example.com/repo.git or
ssh://corp.example.com/repo.git without needing to make additional requests.
Developers will need read access to repositories containing private modules.
This may be configured in global VCS configuration files like .gitconfig.
It’s best if VCS tools are configured not to need interactive authentication
prompts. By default, when invoking Git, the go command disables interactive
prompts by setting GIT_TERMINAL_PROMPT=0, but it respects explicit settings.
Passing credentials to private proxies
The go command supports HTTP basic
authentication when
communicating with proxy servers.
Credentials may be specified in a .netrc
file.
For example, a .netrc file containing the lines below would configure the go
command to connect to the machine proxy.corp.example.com with the given
username and password.
machine proxy.corp.example.com
login jrgopher
password hunter2

The location of the file may be set with the NETRC environment variable. If
NETRC is not set, the go command will read $HOME/.netrc on UNIX-like
platforms or %USERPROFILE%\_netrc on Windows.
Fields in .netrc are separated with spaces, tabs, and newlines. Unfortunately,
these characters cannot be used in usernames or passwords. Note also that the
machine name cannot be a full URL, so it’s not possible to specify different
usernames and passwords for different paths on the same machine.
Alternatively, credentials may be specified directly in GOPROXY URLs. For
example:
GOPROXY=https://jrgopher:hunter2@proxy.corp.example.com

Use caution when taking this approach: environment variables may appear
in shell history and in logs.
Passing credentials to private repositories
The go command may download a module directly from a version control
repository. This is necessary for private modules if a private proxy is
not used. See Direct access to private modules
for configuration.
The go command runs version control tools like git when downloading
modules directly. These tools perform their own authentication, so you may
need to configure credentials in a tool-specific configuration file like
.gitconfig.
To ensure this works smoothly, make sure the go command uses the correct
repository URL and that the version control tool doesn’t require a password to
be entered interactively. The go command prefers https:// URLs over other
schemes like ssh:// unless the scheme was specified when looking up the
repository URL. For GitHub repositories specifically, the go
command assumes https://.
For most servers, you can configure your client to authenticate over HTTP. For
example, GitHub supports using OAuth personal access tokens as HTTP
passwords.
You can store HTTP passwords in a .netrc file, as when passing credentials to
private proxies.
Alternatively, you can rewrite https:// URLs to another scheme. For example,
in .gitconfig:
[url "git@github.com:"]
    insteadOf = https://github.com/

For more information, see Why does “go get” use HTTPS when cloning a
repository?
Privacy
The go command may download modules and metadata from module proxy
servers and version control systems. The environment variable GOPROXY
controls which servers are used. The environment variables GOPRIVATE and
GONOPROXY control which modules are fetched from proxies.
The default value of GOPROXY is:
https://proxy.golang.org,direct

With this setting, when the go command downloads a module or module metadata,
it will first send a request to proxy.golang.org, a public module proxy
operated by Google (privacy policy). See
GOPROXY protocol for details on what information is sent
in each request. The go command does not transmit personally identifiable
information, but it does transmit the full module path being requested. If the
proxy responds with a 404 (Not Found) or 410 (Gone) status, the go command
will attempt to connect directly to the version control system providing the
module. See Version control systems for details.
The GOPRIVATE or GONOPROXY environment variables may be set to lists of glob
patterns matching module prefixes that are private and should not be requested
from any proxy. For example:
GOPRIVATE=*.corp.example.com,*.research.example.com

GOPRIVATE simply acts as a default for GONOPROXY and GONOSUMDB, so it’s
not necessary to set GONOPROXY unless GONOSUMDB should have a different
value. When a module path is matched by GONOPROXY, the go command ignores
GOPROXY for that module and fetches it directly from its version control
repository. This is useful when no proxy serves private modules. See Direct
access to private modules.
If there is a trusted proxy serving all modules,
then GONOPROXY should not be set. For example, if GOPROXY is set to one
source, the go command will not download modules from other sources.
GONOSUMDB should still be set in this situation.
GOPROXY=https://proxy.corp.example.com
GONOSUMDB=*.corp.example.com,*.research.example.com

If there is a trusted proxy serving only private
modules, GONOPROXY should not be set, but care
must be taken to ensure the proxy responds with the correct status codes. For
example, consider the following configuration:
GOPROXY=https://proxy.corp.example.com,https://proxy.golang.org
GONOSUMDB=*.corp.example.com,*.research.example.com

Suppose that due to a typo, a developer attempts to download a module that
doesn’t exist.
go mod download corp.example.com/secret-product/typo@latest

The go command first requests this module from proxy.corp.example.com. If
that proxy responds with 404 (Not Found) or 410 (Gone), the go command will
fall back to proxy.golang.org, transmitting the secret-product path in the
request URL. If the private proxy responds with any other error code, the go
command prints the error and will not fall back to other sources.
In addition to proxies, the go command may connect to the checksum database to
verify cryptographic hashes of modules not listed in go.sum. The GOSUMDB
environment variable sets the name, URL, and public key of the checksum
database. The default value of GOSUMDB is sum.golang.org, the public
checksum database operated by Google (privacy
policy). See Checksum
database for details on what is transmitted with each
request. As with proxies, the go command does not transmit personally
identifiable information, but it does transmit the full module path being
requested, and the checksum database cannot compute checksums for non-public
modules.
The GONOSUMDB environment variable may be set to patterns indicating which
modules are private and should not be requested from the checksum
database. GOPRIVATE acts as a default for GONOSUMDB and GONOPROXY, so it’s
not necessary to set GONOSUMDB unless GONOPROXY should have a
different value.
A proxy may mirror the checksum
database.
If a proxy in GOPROXY does this, the go command will not connect to the
checksum database directly.
GOSUMDB may be set to off to disable use of the checksum database
entirely. With this setting, the go command will not authenticate downloaded
modules unless they’re already in go.sum. See Authenticating
modules.
Module cache
The module cache is the directory where the go command stores
downloaded module files. The module cache is distinct from the build cache,
which contains compiled packages and other build artifacts.
The default location of the module cache is $GOPATH/pkg/mod. To use a
different location, set the GOMODCACHE environment
variable.
The module cache has no maximum size, and the go command does not remove its
contents automatically.
The cache may be shared by multiple Go projects developed on the same machine.
The go command will use the same cache regardless of the location of the
main module. Multiple instances of the go command may safely access the
same module cache at the same time.
The go command creates module source files and directories in the cache with
read-only permissions to prevent accidental changes to modules after they’re
downloaded. This has the unfortunate side-effect of making the cache difficult
to delete with commands like rm -rf. The cache may instead be deleted with
go clean -modcache. Alternatively, when the
-modcacherw flag is used, the go command will create new directories with
read-write permissions. This increases the risk of editors, tests, and other
programs modifying files in the module cache. The go mod verify command may be used to detect modifications to
dependencies of the main module. It scans the extracted contents of each
module dependency and confirms they match the expected hash in go.sum.
The table below explains the purpose of most files in the module cache. Some
transient files (lock files, temporary directories) are omitted. For each path,
$module is a module path, and $version is a version. Paths ending with
slashes (/) are directories. Capital letters in module paths and versions are
escaped using exclamation points (Azure is escaped as !azure) to avoid
conflicts on case-insensitive file systems.

  
    
      Path
      Description
    
  
  
    
      $module@$version/
      
        Directory containing extracted contents of a module .zip
        file. This serves as a module root directory for a downloaded module. It
        won't contain a go.mod file if the original module
        didn't have one.
      
    
    
      cache/download/
      
        Directory containing files downloaded from module proxies and files
        derived from version control systems. The layout of
        this directory follows the
        GOPROXY protocol, so
        this directory may be used as a proxy when served by an HTTP file
        server or when referenced with a file:// URL.
      
    
    
      cache/download/$module/@v/list
      
        List of known versions (see
        GOPROXY protocol). This
        may change over time, so the go command usually fetches a
        new copy instead of re-using this file.
      
    
    
      cache/download/$module/@v/$version.info
      
        JSON metadata about the version. (see
        GOPROXY protocol). This
        may change over time, so the go command usually fetches a
        new copy instead of re-using this file.
      
    
    
      cache/download/$module/@v/$version.mod
      
        The go.mod file for this version (see
        GOPROXY protocol). If
        the original module did not have a go.mod file, this is
        a synthesized file with no requirements.
      
    
    
      cache/download/$module/@v/$version.zip
      
        The zipped contents of the module (see
        GOPROXY protocol and
        Module zip files).
      
    
    
      cache/download/$module/@v/$version.ziphash
      
        A cryptographic hash of the files in the .zip file.
        Note that the .zip file itself is not hashed, so file
        order, compression, alignment, and metadata don't affect the hash.
        When using a module, the go command verifies this hash
        matches the corresponding line in
        go.sum. The
        go mod verify command checks
        that the hashes of module .zip files and extracted
        directories match these files.
      
    
    
      cache/download/sumdb/
      
        Directory containing files downloaded from a
        checksum database (typically
        sum.golang.org).
      
    
    
      cache/vcs/
      
        Contains cloned version control repositories for modules fetched
        directly from their sources. Directory names are hex-encoded hashes
        derived from the repository type and URL. Repositories are optimized
        for size on disk. For example, cloned Git repositories are bare and
        shallow when possible.
      
    
  

Authenticating modules
When the go command downloads a module zip file or go.mod
file into the module cache, it computes a
cryptographic hash and compares it with a known value to verify the file hasn’t
changed since it was first downloaded. The go command reports a security error
if a downloaded file does not have the correct hash.
For go.mod files, the go command computes the hash from the file
content. For module zip files, the go command computes the hash from the names
and contents of files within the archive in a deterministic order. The hash is
not affected by file order, compression, alignment, and other metadata. See
golang.org/x/mod/sumdb/dirhash
for hash implementation details.
The go command compares each hash with the corresponding line in the main
module’s go.sum file. If the hash is different from the hash
in go.sum, the go command reports a security error and deletes the
downloaded file without adding it into the module cache.
If the go.sum file is not present, or if it doesn’t contain a hash for the
downloaded file, the go command may verify the hash using the checksum
database, a global source of hashes for publicly available
modules. Once the hash is verified, the go command adds it to go.sum and
adds the downloaded file in the module cache. If a module is private (matched by
the GOPRIVATE or GONOSUMDB environment variables) or if the checksum
database is disabled (by setting GOSUMDB=off), the go command accepts the
hash and adds the file to the module cache without verifying it.
The module cache is usually shared by all Go projects on a system, and each
module may have its own go.sum file with potentially different hashes. To
avoid the need to trust other modules, the go command verifies hashes using
the main module’s go.sum whenever it accesses a file in the module cache. Zip
file hashes are expensive to compute, so the go command checks pre-computed
hashes stored alongside zip files instead of re-hashing the files. The go mod verify command may be used to check that zip files and
extracted directories have not been modified since they were added to the module
cache.
go.sum files
A module may have a text file named go.sum in its root directory, alongside
its go.mod file. The go.sum file contains cryptographic hashes of the
module’s direct and indirect dependencies. When the go command downloads a
module .mod or .zip file into the module cache, it computes
a hash and checks that the hash matches the corresponding hash in the main
module’s go.sum file. go.sum may be empty or absent if the module has no
dependencies or if all dependencies are replaced with local directories using
replace directives.
Each line in go.sum has three fields separated by spaces: a module path,
a version (possibly ending with /go.mod), and a hash.

The module path is the name of the module the hash belongs to.
The version is the version of the module the hash belongs to. If the version
ends with /go.mod, the hash is for the module’s go.mod file only;
otherwise, the hash is for the files within the module’s .zip file.
The hash column consists of an algorithm name (like h1) and a base64-encoded
cryptographic hash, separated by a colon (:). Currently, SHA-256 (h1) is
the only supported hash algorithm. If a vulnerability in SHA-256 is discovered
in the future, support will be added for another algorithm (named h2 and
so on).

The go.sum file may contain hashes for multiple versions of a module. The go
command may need to load go.mod files from multiple versions of a dependency
in order to perform minimal version selection.
go.sum may also contain hashes for module versions that aren’t needed anymore
(for example, after an upgrade). go mod tidy will add missing
hashes and will remove unnecessary hashes from go.sum.
Checksum database
The checksum database is a global source of go.sum lines. The go command can
use this in many situations to detect misbehavior by proxies or origin servers.
The checksum database allows for global consistency and reliability for all
publicly available module versions. It makes untrusted proxies possible since
they can’t serve the wrong code without it going unnoticed. It also ensures
that the bits associated with a specific version do not change from one day to
the next, even if the module’s author subsequently alters the tags in their
repository.
The checksum database is served by sum.golang.org,
which is run by Google. It is a Transparent
Log (or “Merkle Tree”) of go.sum line
hashes, which is backed by Trillian. The
main advantage of a Merkle tree is that independent auditors can verify that it
hasn’t been tampered with, so it is more trustworthy than a simple database.
The go command interacts with the checksum database using the protocol
originally outlined in Proposal: Secure the Public Go Module
Ecosystem.
The table below specifies queries that the checksum database must respond to.
For each path, $base is the path portion of the checksum database URL,
$module is a module path, and $version is a version. For example, if the
checksum database URL is https://sum.golang.org, and the client is requesting
the record for the module golang.org/x/text at version v0.3.2, the client
would send a GET request for
https://sum.golang.org/lookup/golang.org/x/text@v0.3.2.
To avoid ambiguity when serving from case-insensitive file systems,
the $module and $version elements are
case-encoded
by replacing every uppercase letter with an exclamation mark followed by the
corresponding lower-case letter. This allows modules example.com/M and
example.com/m to both be stored on disk, since the former is encoded as
example.com/!m.
Parts of the path surrounded by square brackets, like [.p/$W] denote optional
values.

  
    
      Path
      Description
    
  
  
    
      $base/latest
      
        Returns a signed, encoded tree description for the latest log. This
        signed description is in the form of a
        note,
        which is text that has been signed by one or more server keys and can
        be verified using the server's public key. The tree description
        provides the size of the tree and the hash of the tree head at that
        size. This encoding is described in
        
        golang.org/x/mod/sumdb/tlog#FormatTree.
      
    
    
    
      $base/lookup/$module@$version
      
        Returns the log record number for the entry about $module
        at $version, followed by the data for the record (that is,
        the go.sum lines for $module at
        $version) and a signed, encoded tree description that
        contains the record.
      
    
    
    
      $base/tile/$H/$L/$K[.p/$W]
      
        Returns a log tile,
        which is a set of hashes that make up a section of the log. Each tile
        is defined in a two-dimensional coordinate at tile level
        $L, $Kth from the left, with a tile height of
        $H. The optional .p/$W suffix indicates a
        partial log tile with only $W hashes. Clients must fall
        back to fetching the full tile if a partial tile is not found.
      
    
    
    
      $base/tile/$H/data/$K[.p/$W]
      
        Returns the record data for the leaf hashes in
        /tile/$H/0/$K[.p/$W] (with a literal data path
        element).
      
    
    
  

If the go command consults the checksum database, then the first
step is to retrieve the record data through the /lookup endpoint. If the
module version is not yet recorded in the log, the checksum database will try
to fetch it from the origin server before replying. This /lookup data
provides the sum for this module version as well as its position in the log,
which informs the client of which tiles should be fetched to perform proofs.
The go command performs “inclusion” proofs (that a specific record exists in
the log) and “consistency” proofs (that the tree hasn’t been tampered with)
before adding new go.sum lines to the main module’s go.sum file. It’s
important that the data from /lookup should never be used without first
authenticating it against the signed tree hash and authenticating the signed
tree hash against the client’s timeline of signed tree hashes.
Signed tree hashes and new tiles served by the checksum database are stored
in the module cache, so the go command only needs to fetch tiles that are
missing.
The go command doesn’t need to directly connect to the checksum database. It
can request module sums via a module proxy that mirrors the checksum
database
and supports the protocol above. This can be particularly helpful for private,
corporate proxies which block requests outside the organization.
The GOSUMDB environment variable identifies the name of checksum database to
use and optionally its public key and URL, as in:
GOSUMDB="sum.golang.org"
GOSUMDB="sum.golang.org+<publickey>"
GOSUMDB="sum.golang.org+<publickey> https://sum.golang.org"

The go command knows the public key of sum.golang.org, and also that the
name sum.golang.google.cn (available inside mainland China) connects to the
sum.golang.org checksum database; use of any other database requires giving
the public key explicitly. The URL defaults to https:// followed by the
database name.
GOSUMDB defaults to sum.golang.org, the Go checksum database run by Google.
See https://sum.golang.org/privacy for the service’s privacy policy.
If GOSUMDB is set to off, or if go get is invoked with the -insecure
flag, the checksum database is not consulted, and all unrecognized modules are
accepted, at the cost of giving up the security guarantee of verified
repeatable downloads for all modules. A better way to bypass the checksum
database for specific modules is to use the GOPRIVATE or GONOSUMDB
environment variables. See Private Modules for details.
The go env -w command can be used to
set these variables
for future go command invocations.
Environment variables
Module behavior in the go command may be configured using the environment
variables listed below. This list only includes module-related environment
variables. See go help environment for a list
of all environment variables recognized by the go command.

  
    
      Variable
      Description
    
  
  
    
      GO111MODULE
      
        
          Controls whether the go command runs in module-aware mode
          or GOPATH mode. Three values are recognized:
        
        
          
            off: the go command ignores
            go.mod files and runs in GOPATH mode.
          
          
            on (or unset): the go command runs in
            module-aware mode, even when no go.mod file is present.
          
          
            auto: the go command runs in module-aware
            mode if a go.mod file is present in the current
            directory or any parent directory. In Go 1.15 and lower, this was
            the default.
          
        
        
          See Module-aware commands for more
          information.
        
      
    
    
      GOMODCACHE
      
        
          The directory where the go command will store downloaded
          modules and related files. See Module
          cache for details on the structure of this directory.
        
        
          If GOMODCACHE is not set, it defaults to
          $GOPATH/pkg/mod.
        
      
    
    
      GOINSECURE
      
        
          Comma-separated list of glob patterns (in the syntax of Go's
          path.Match) of module path
          prefixes that may always be fetched in an insecure manner. Only
          applies to dependencies that are being fetched directly.
        
        
          Unlike the -insecure flag on go get,
          GOINSECURE does not disable module checksum database
          validation. GOPRIVATE or GONOSUMDB may be
          used to achieve that.
        
      
    
    
      GONOPROXY
      
        
          Comma-separated list of glob patterns (in the syntax of Go's
          path.Match) of module path
          prefixes that should always be fetched directly from version control
          repositories, not from module proxies.
        
        
          If GONOPROXY is not set, it defaults to
          GOPRIVATE. See
          Privacy.
        
      
    
    
      GONOSUMDB
      
        
          Comma-separated list of glob patterns (in the syntax of Go's
          path.Match) of module path
          prefixes for which the go should not verify checksums
          using the checksum database.
        
        
          If GONOSUMDB is not set, it defaults to
          GOPRIVATE. See
          Privacy.
        
      
    
    
      GOPATH
      
        
          In GOPATH mode, the GOPATH variable is a
          list of directories that may contain Go code.
        
        
          In module-aware mode, the module
          cache is stored in the pkg/mod subdirectory of the
          first GOPATH directory. Module source code outside the
          cache may be stored in any directory.
        
        
          If GOPATH is not set, it defaults to the go
          subdirectory of the user's home directory.
        
      
    
    
      GOPRIVATE
      
        Comma-separated list of glob patterns (in the syntax of Go's
        path.Match) of module path
        prefixes that should be considered private. GOPRIVATE
        is a default value for GONOPROXY and
        GONOSUMDB. See
        Privacy. GOPRIVATE
        also determines whether a module is considered private for
        GOVCS.
      
    
    
      GOPROXY
      
        
          List of module proxy URLs, separated by commas (,) or
          pipes (|). When the go command looks up
          information about a module, it contacts each proxy in the list in
          sequence until it receives a successful response or a terminal error.
          A proxy may respond with a 404 (Not Found) or 410 (Gone) status to
          indicate the module is not available on that server.
        
        
          The go command's error fallback behavior is determined
          by the separator characters between URLs. If a proxy URL is followed
          by a comma, the go command falls back to the next URL
          after a 404 or 410 error; all other errors are considered terminal.
          If the proxy URL is followed by a pipe, the go command
          falls back to the next source after any error, including non-HTTP
          errors like timeouts.
        
        
          GOPROXY URLs may have the schemes https,
          http, or file. If a URL has no scheme,
          https is assumed. A module cache may be used directly as
          a file proxy:
        
        GOPROXY=file://$(go env GOMODCACHE)/cache/download
        Two keywords may be used in place of proxy URLs:
        
          
            off: disallows downloading modules from any source.
          
          
            direct: download directly from version control
            repositories instead of using a module proxy.
          
        
        
          GOPROXY defaults to
          https://proxy.golang.org,direct. Under that
          configuration, the go command first contacts the Go
          module mirror run by Google, then falls back to a direct connection if
          the mirror does not have the module. See
          https://proxy.golang.org/privacy
          for the mirror's privacy policy. The GOPRIVATE and
          GONOPROXY environment variables may be set to prevent
          specific modules from being downloaded using proxies. See
          Privacy for information on
          private proxy configuration.
        
        
          See Module proxies and
          Resolving a package to a module for
          more information on how proxies are used.
        
      
    
    
      GOSUMDB
      
        
          Identifies the name of the checksum database to use and optionally
          its public key and URL. For example:
        
        
GOSUMDB="sum.golang.org"
GOSUMDB="sum.golang.org+<publickey>"
GOSUMDB="sum.golang.org+<publickey> https://sum.golang.org"

        
          The go command knows the public key of
          sum.golang.org and also that the name
          sum.golang.google.cn (available inside mainland China)
          connects to the sum.golang.org database; use of any other
          database requires giving the public key explicitly. The URL defaults
          to https:// followed by the database name.
        
        
          GOSUMDB defaults to sum.golang.org, the
          Go checksum database run by Google. See
          https://sum.golang.org/privacy
          for the service's privacy policy.
        
        
          If GOSUMDB is set to off or if
          go get is invoked with the -insecure flag,
          the checksum database is not consulted, and all unrecognized modules
          are accepted, at the cost of giving up the security guarantee of
          verified repeatable downloads for all modules. A better way to bypass
          the checksum database for specific modules is to use the
          GOPRIVATE or GONOSUMDB environment
          variables.
        
        
          See Authenticating modules and
          Privacy for more information.
        
      
    
    
      GOVCS
      
        
          Controls the set of version control tools the go command
          may use to download public and private modules (defined by whether
          their paths match a pattern in GOPRIVATE) or other
          modules matching a glob pattern.
        
        
          If GOVCS is not set, or if a module does not match any
          pattern in GOVCS, the go command may use
          git and hg for a public module, or any known
          version control tool for a private module. Concretely, the
          go command acts as if GOVCS were set to:
        
        public:git|hg,private:all
        
          See Controlling version control tools with
          GOVCS for a complete explanation.
        
      
    
     
      GOWORK
      
       
        The GOWORK environment variable instructs the go command to enter workspace
        mode using the provided go.work file to define the workspace.
        If GOWORK is set to off workspace mode is disabled. This can be used to run
        the go command in single module mode: for example, GOWORK=off go build . builds
        the . package in single-module mode. If GOWORK is empty, the
        go command will search for a go.work file as described in the Workspaces
        section.
       
      
    
  

Glossary

build constraint: A condition that determines whether a Go source file is
used when compiling a package. Build constraints may be expressed with file name
suffixes (for example, foo_linux_amd64.go) or with build constraint comments
(for example, // +build linux,amd64). See Build
Constraints.

build list: The list of module versions that will be used for a build
command such as go build, go list, or go test. The build list is
determined from the main module’s go.mod
file and go.mod files in transitively required modules
using minimal version selection. The build
list contains versions for all modules in the module
graph, not just those relevant to a specific command.

canonical version: A correctly formatted version without
a build metadata suffix other than +incompatible. For example, v1.2.3
is a canonical version, but v1.2.3+meta is not.

current module: Synonym for main module.

deprecated module: A module that is no longer supported by its authors
(though major versions are considered distinct modules for this purpose).
A deprecated module is marked with a deprecation
comment in the latest version of its
go.mod file.

direct dependency: A package whose path appears in an import
declaration in a .go source file for a package
or test in the main module, or the module containing such a
package. (Compare indirect dependency.)

direct mode: A setting of environment variables
that causes the go command to download a module directly from a version
control system, as opposed to a module proxy.
GOPROXY=direct does this for all modules. GOPRIVATE and GONOPROXY do this
for modules matching a list of patterns.

go.mod file: The file that defines a module’s path, requirements, and
other metadata. Appears in the module’s root
directory. See the section on go.mod
files.

go.work file The file that defines the set of modules to be
used in a workspace. See the section on
go.work files

import path: A string used to import a package in a Go source file.
Synonymous with package path.

indirect dependency: A package transitively imported by a package or test in
the main module, but whose path does not appear in any
import declaration in the main module;
or a module that appears in the module graph but does not
provide any package directly imported by the main module.
(Compare direct dependency.)

lazy module loading: A change in Go 1.17 that avoids loading the module
graph for commands that do not need it in modules that
specify go 1.17 or higher. See Lazy module loading.

main module: The module in which the go command is invoked. The main
module is defined by a go.mod file in the current
directory or a parent directory. See Modules, packages, and
versions.

major version: The first number in a semantic version (1 in v1.2.3). In
a release with incompatible changes, the major version must be incremented, and
the minor and patch versions must be set to 0. Semantic versions with major
version 0 are considered unstable.

major version subdirectory: A subdirectory within a version control
repository matching a module’s major version
suffix where a module may be defined. For example,
the module example.com/mod/v2 in the repository with root
path example.com/mod may be defined in the
repository root directory or the major version subdirectory v2. See Module
directories within a repository.

major version suffix: A module path suffix that matches the major version
number. For example, /v2 in example.com/mod/v2. Major version suffixes are
required at v2.0.0 and later and are not allowed at earlier versions. See
the section on Major version suffixes.

minimal version selection (MVS): The algorithm used to determine the
versions of all modules that will be used in a build. See the section on
Minimal version selection for details.

minor version: The second number in a semantic version (2 in v1.2.3). In
a release with new, backwards compatible functionality, the minor version must
be incremented, and the patch version must be set to 0.

module: A collection of packages that are released, versioned, and
distributed together.

module cache: A local directory storing downloaded modules, located in
GOPATH/pkg/mod. See Module cache.

module graph: The directed graph of module requirements, rooted at the main
module. Each vertex in the graph is a module; each edge is a
version from a require statement in a go.mod file (subject to replace and
exclude statements in the main module’s go.mod file).

module graph pruning: A change in Go 1.17 that reduces the size of the
module graph by omitting transitive dependencies of modules that specify go 1.17 or higher. See Module graph pruning.

module path: A path that identifies a module and acts as a prefix for
package import paths within the module. For example, "golang.org/x/net".

module proxy: A web server that implements the GOPROXY
protocol. The go command downloads version information,
go.mod files, and module zip files from module proxies.

module root directory: The directory that contains the go.mod file that
defines a module.

module subdirectory: The portion of a module path after
the repository root path that indicates the
subdirectory where the module is defined. When non-empty, the module
subdirectory is also a prefix for semantic version
tags. The module subdirectory does not include the
major version suffix, if there is one, even if the
module is in a major version subdirectory.
See Module paths.

package: A collection of source files in the same directory that are
compiled together. See the Packages section in the Go
Language Specification.

package path: The path that uniquely identifies a package. A package path is
a module path joined with a subdirectory within the module.
For example "golang.org/x/net/html" is the package path for the package in the
module "golang.org/x/net" in the "html" subdirectory. Synonym of
import path.

patch version: The third number in a semantic version (3 in v1.2.3). In
a release with no changes to the module’s public interface, the patch version
must be incremented.

pre-release version: A version with a dash followed by a series of
dot-separated identifiers immediately following the patch version, for example,
v1.2.3-beta4. Pre-release versions are considered unstable and are not
assumed to be compatible with other versions. A pre-release version sorts before
the corresponding release version: v1.2.3-pre comes before v1.2.3. See also
release version.

pseudo-version: A version that encodes a revision identifier (such as a Git
commit hash) and a timestamp from a version control system. For example,
v0.0.0-20191109021931-daa7c04131f5. Used for compatibility with non-module
repositories and in other situations when a tagged
version is not available.

release version: A version without a pre-release suffix. For example,
v1.2.3, not v1.2.3-pre. See also pre-release
version.

repository root path: The portion of a module path that
corresponds to a version control repository’s root directory. See Module
paths.

retracted version: A version that should not be depended upon, either
because it was published prematurely or because a severe problem was discovered
after it was published. See retract directive.

semantic version tag: A tag in a version control repository that maps a
version to a specific revision. See Mapping versions to
commits.

selected version: The version of a given module chosen by minimal version
selection. The selected version is the highest
version for the module’s path found in the module graph.

vendor directory: A directory named vendor that contains packages from
other modules needed to build packages in the main module. Maintained with
go mod vendor. See Vendoring.

version: An identifier for an immutable snapshot of a module, written as the
letter v followed by a semantic version. See the section on
Versions.

workspace: A collection of modules on disk that are used as
the main modules when running minimal version selection (MVS).
See the section on Workspaces

  
    
      
          
            
              Why Go
            
              
                Use Cases
              
              
                Case Studies
              
          
          
            
              Get Started
            
              
                Playground
              
              
                Tour
              
              
                Stack Overflow
              
              
                Help
              
          
          
            
              Packages
            
              
                Standard Library
              
              
                About Go Packages
              
              
                pkg.go.dev API
              
          
          
            
              About
            
              
                Download
              
              
                Blog
              
              
                Issue Tracker
              
              
                Release Notes
              
              
                Brand Guidelines
              
              
                Code of Conduct
              
          
          
            
              Connect
            
              
                Bluesky
              
              
                Mastodon
              
              
                Twitter
              
              
                GitHub
              
              
                Slack
              
              
                r/golang
              
              
                Meetup
              
              
                Golang Weekly
              
          
      
    
  
  
          Opens in new window.
  
  
    
      
        
        
          
            Copyright
          
          
            Terms of Service
          
          
            
              Privacy Policy
            
            
          
            
              Report an Issue
            
          
          
            
              
              
              
            
          
        
        
          
        
      
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

  go.dev uses cookies from Google to deliver and enhance the quality of its services and to
  analyze traffic. Learn more.
  Okay

